2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post archive.today webpage capture Saved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump an no other snapshots from this url Redirected from https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump an no other snapshots from this url search 19 Jul 2017 22:03:03 UTC All snapshots from host www.washingtonpost.com Webpage Screenshot share download .zip report bug or abuse  Sections  Sign In Subscribe Democracy Dies in Darkness    Politics     Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   (The Washington Post) (The Washington Post)  628 May 16  By By Philip Rucker Philip Rucker and and Karen DeYoung Karen DeYoung May 16 Most Read Comfortable chastising and cajoling in his fluent English, Comfortable chastising and cajoling in his fluent English, Sergei Lavrov has brought scowls and smiles to the faces of Sergei Lavrov has brought scowls and smiles to the faces of officials from four U.S. administrations during more than officials from four U.S. administrations during more than 1 Analysis Pence tries his best to keep unsaid what Trump then says about election integrity two decades as a senior statesman from Russia. two decades as a senior statesman from Russia. So it was no surprise that when the Russian foreign minister So it was no surprise that when the Russian foreign minister paid a visit to President Trump last Wednesday, there were paid a visit to President Trump last Wednesday, there were 2 Supreme Court allows Trump travel ban enforcement, but says it must allow broader exemptions for relatives broad grins all around the Oval Office  just in time for broad grins all around the Oval Office  just in time for Moscows official photographer to memorialize a chummy Moscows official photographer to memorialize a chummy image of a tte  tte that Trump might now wish he could image of a tte  tte that Trump might now wish he could forget. forget. 3 Analysis This astonishing interview dramatically undercuts Trumps voter fraud investigation Lavrov  almost certainly aware of Trumps proud Lavrov  almost certainly aware of Trumps proud indifference to the conventions of his office, especially when indifference to the conventions of his office, especially when trying to impress visitors  listened as Trump bragged trying to impress visitors  listened as Trump bragged about the intelligence he receives and shared highly about the intelligence he receives and shared highly 4 Analysis Senate Republicans hard lesson: No women, no health care bill classified information from a U.S. partner with Lavrov and classified information from a U.S. partner with Lavrov and 5 Analysis https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 1/8 2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, who also attended, according Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, who also attended, according to current and former U.S. officials. to current and former U.S. officials. Why did Trump meet with Putin again? Here are three possibilities. The meeting that produced one of the biggest crises yet for a The meeting that produced one of the biggest crises yet for a White House already well accustomed to tumult began as a White House already well accustomed to tumult began as a favor from one president to another. favor from one president to another. On May 2, eight days before Lavrov showed up at the White On May 2, eight days before Lavrov showed up at the White House, Russian President Vladi mir Putin was on the phone House, Russian President Vladi mir Putin was on the phone The story must be told. Subscribe to The Washington Post. with Trump and made a request. Putin had new ideas with Trump and made a request. Putin had new ideas about stopping the civil war carnage in Syria, according to a about stopping the civil war carnage in Syria, according to a Subscribe senior U.S. official, and noted that his top diplomat, Lavrov, senior U.S. official, and noted that his top diplomat, Lavrov, would soon be visiting the United States for a previously would soon be visiting the United States for a previously scheduled meeting with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. scheduled meeting with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Inside 'Trump Revealed' Will you see him? Will you see him? Putin asked Trump, Putin asked Trump, Read stories based on reporting for Trump Revealed, a broad, comprehensive biography of the life of the president. according to the according to the official, who spoke official, who spoke Reporting archive: Trumps financial records, depositions and interview transcripts on the condition of on the condition of anonymity to anonymity to describe the private describe the private A photo made available by the Russian Foreign A photo made available by the Russian Foreign Ministry shows President Trump, far left, Ministry shows President Trump, far left, meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, second to left, and other U.S. and Lavrov, second to left, and other U.S. and Russian officials during their White House Russian officials during their White House meeting on May 10. (Russian Foreign meeting on May 10. (Russian Foreign Ministry/AFP/Getty Images) Ministry/AFP/Getty Images) talks. talks. Yes, Trump Yes, Trump replied. replied. Politics newsletter The big stories and commentary shaping the day. E mail address Add Lavrovs itinerary Lavrovs itinerary had him going nowhere near Washington  4,100 miles had him going nowhere near Washington  4,100 miles washingtonpost.com away in Fairbanks, Alaska, where he and Tillerson would be away in Fairbanks, Alaska, where he and Tillerson would be  1996 2017 The Washington Post attending a meeting of the Arctic Council, the group of attending a meeting of the Arctic Council, the group of Help and Contact Us countries that have territory in the Arctic region. Putin countries that have territory in the Arctic region. Putin Terms of Service glossed over that detail with Trump, however, and once he glossed over that detail with Trump, however, and once he Privacy Policy agreed to a face to face meeting with Lavrov, the Russian agreed to a face to face meeting with Lavrov, the Russian Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale minister changed his plans to jet first to Washington. minister changed his plans to jet first to Washington. Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service For the Kremlin, a private audience with the president was For the Kremlin, a private audience with the president was Ad Choices a major opportunity to show the world that U.S. Russia a major opportunity to show the world that U.S. Russia relations were normalizing. relations were normalizing. Since the crisis in Ukraine, when Russia annexed Crimea in Since the crisis in Ukraine, when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 and sent troops into breakaway eastern Ukraine, the 2014 and sent troops into breakaway eastern Ukraine, the United States has sought to show that it is not conducting United States has sought to show that it is not conducting business as usual with Russian figures, said Andrew business as usual with Russian figures, said Andrew https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 2/8 2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post Weiss, a Russia specialist who is vice president for studies Weiss, a Russia specialist who is vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Trump revealed highly classified information to Russian [[Trump revealed highly classified information to Russian foreign minister and ambassador]] foreign minister and ambassador But Putin and his deputies, Weiss said, have sought But Putin and his deputies, Weiss said, have sought whenever they could to lessen that international isolation whenever they could to lessen that international isolation and demonstrate, See, were back in the family of nations, and demonstrate, See, were back in the family of nations, and were all going to get back to business again.  and were all going to get back to business again.  A look at President Trumps first year in office, so far    View Photos The presidents term has featured controversial executive orders and frequent conflicts with the media. Trump on Tuesday said that his meeting with Lavrov was Trump on Tuesday said that his meeting with Lavrov was very, very successful and that it was a precursor to a lot very, very successful and that it was a precursor to a lot of great success over the next coming years in fighting of great success over the next coming years in fighting global terrorism. global terrorism. did nothing Trumps advisers insisted that the president did nothing Trumps advisers insisted that the president wrong.. wrong What the president discussed with the foreign minister was What the president discussed with the foreign minister was wholly appropriate to that conversation and is consistent wholly appropriate to that conversation and is consistent with the routine sharing of information between the with the routine sharing of information between the president and any leaders with whom hes engaged, president and any leaders with whom hes engaged, national security adviser H.R. McMaster told reporters national security adviser H.R. McMaster told reporters Tuesday. Tuesday. https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 3/8 2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post In one important respect, the Trump administrations hand In one important respect, the Trump administrations hand might have been forced. After Putin received Tillerson might have been forced. After Putin received Tillerson in in Moscow last month  meeting privately Moscow last month  with the secretary meeting privately with the secretary of state for two hours at the Kremlin  the United States of state for two hours at the Kremlin  the United States owed reciprocity to Russia in the form of an audience with owed reciprocity to Russia in the form of an audience with Trump for Tillersons Russian counterpart, Lavrov. Trump for Tillersons Russian counterpart, Lavrov. Rejecting Putins request for a Trump Lavrov meeting Rejecting Putins request for a Trump Lavrov meeting would have represented a breach in diplomatic tradition. would have represented a breach in diplomatic tradition. Never mind the United States growing list of grievances Never mind the United States growing list of grievances with Russia  which includes the conclusion of U.S. with Russia  which includes the conclusion of U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia interfered with the 2016 intelligence agencies that Russia interfered with the 2016 presidential election to help elect Trump, as well as presidential election to help elect Trump, as well as Moscows refusal to rein in support for Syrian President Moscows refusal to rein in support for Syrian President Bashar al Assad amid that countrys civil war and Bashar al Assad amid that countrys civil war and humanitarian crisis. humanitarian crisis. U.S. officials moved forward regardless to orchestrate U.S. officials moved forward regardless to orchestrate Lavrovs meeting with Trump. Weiss said that throws out Lavrovs meeting with Trump. Weiss said that throws out the very limited leverage we have with the Russians, and the very limited leverage we have with the Russians, and makes it look like were softies. makes it look like were softies. The meeting took place the morning of May 10 in the Oval The meeting took place the morning of May 10 in the Oval Office, the very symbol of presidential power, and White Office, the very symbol of presidential power, and White House aides took pains to keep the plan from leaking to House aides took pains to keep the plan from leaking to reporters. It was not until the presidents daily schedule was reporters. It was not until the presidents daily schedule was released about 10:30 p.m. on May 9 that the Lavrov meeting released about 10:30 p.m. on May 9 that the Lavrov meeting was confirmed. was confirmed. The date was set before Trump knew he would be firing The date was set before Trump knew he would be firing James B. Comey as FBI director on the afternoon of May 9. James B. Comey as FBI director on the afternoon of May 9. The presidents advisers knew the optics would be bad The presidents advisers knew the optics would be bad politically, one of them said, but calculated that the fallout politically, one of them said, but calculated that the fallout would be just as bad if Trump abruptly canceled on Lavrov, would be just as bad if Trump abruptly canceled on Lavrov, so he kept the appointment. so he kept the appointment. There was no photo availability for Lavrov pulling up at the There was no photo availability for Lavrov pulling up at the White House driveway, as is typical for arriving foreign White House driveway, as is typical for arriving foreign dignitaries. The meeting was considered closed press, dignitaries. The meeting was considered closed press, meaning that the White House press pool was not allowed meaning that the White House press pool was not allowed to enter the Oval Office for what is known as a photo spray, to enter the Oval Office for what is known as a photo spray, which usually lasts for a minute or two. which usually lasts for a minute or two. https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 4/8 2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post Instead, the U.S. and Russian officials who negotiated the Instead, the U.S. and Russian officials who negotiated the visit agreed in advance that the meeting would be visit agreed in advance that the meeting would be documented only by one official photographer from each documented only by one official photographer from each delegation. A few hours before the meeting, according to a delegation. A few hours before the meeting, according to a White House official, some of Trumps aides wondered why White House official, some of Trumps aides wondered why they could not bring in the press corps and were told it had they could not bring in the press corps and were told it had been predetermined that there would be no access. been predetermined that there would be no access. The two photographers took pictures at the start of the The two photographers took pictures at the start of the meeting and then left the room. White House aides said meeting and then left the room. White House aides said they were under the impression that the Russian they were under the impression that the Russian photographer in attendance was on Lavrovs staff, and were photographer in attendance was on Lavrovs staff, and were angry when they later saw the photos published online by angry when they later saw the photos published online by Tass, the state owned Russian news agency. Tass, the state owned Russian news agency. Presence of Russian photographer in Oval Office raises [[Presence of Russian photographer in Oval Office raises security concerns]] security concerns The Tass photographers presence also raised security The Tass photographers presence also raised security alarms with former U.S. intelligence officials, who cited the alarms with former U.S. intelligence officials, who cited the possibility that a hidden listening device or other possibility that a hidden listening device or other surveillance equipment could have been brought into the surveillance equipment could have been brought into the Oval Office. Administration officials played down the Oval Office. Administration officials played down the danger and said the photographer and his equipment were danger and said the photographer and his equipment were subjected to a security screening before entering the White subjected to a security screening before entering the White House. House. Still, U.S. officials acknowledge that they were Still, U.S. officials acknowledge that they were outmaneuvered by their Russian counterparts, at least on outmaneuvered by their Russian counterparts, at least on the photographers, and got rolled, in the words of one. the photographers, and got rolled, in the words of one. The images selected by Tass showed Trump, Lavrov and The images selected by Tass showed Trump, Lavrov and Kislyak laughing, as if telling jokes or engaging in Kislyak laughing, as if telling jokes or engaging in three backslapping banter. The White House later released three backslapping banter. The White House later released depicting a more serious exchange between Trump pictures depicting a more serious exchange between Trump pictures and Lavrov, but not until after the Russian photos and Lavrov, but not until after the Russian photos circulated widely on social media. circulated widely on social media. All of those photos that the Russians released of them all All of those photos that the Russians released of them all standing around laughing  this is the country that just standing around laughing  this is the country that just violated our sovereignty, just interfered in our presidential violated our sovereignty, just interfered in our presidential election, said Michael McFaul, a U.S. ambassador to election, said Michael McFaul, a U.S. ambassador to https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 5/8 2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post Russia under President Barack Obama. It sends a signal, Russia under President Barack Obama. It sends a signal, unfortunately, that Trump doesnt care about that. unfortunately, that Trump doesnt care about that. Weiss said, The photos of people yukking it up in the Oval Weiss said, The photos of people yukking it up in the Oval Office gave a sense that theres nothing wrong with U.S.  Office gave a sense that theres nothing wrong with U.S.  Russia relations, were all pals. Russia relations, were all pals. There were six people from the U.S. side in the room during There were six people from the U.S. side in the room during the Lavrov meeting: Trump, Tillerson, McMaster and the Lavrov meeting: Trump, Tillerson, McMaster and deputy national security adviser Dina Powell, as well as two deputy national security adviser Dina Powell, as well as two more junior aides who are subject matter experts, more junior aides who are subject matter experts, according to a senior administration official. according to a senior administration official. For Trump and Lavrov, the agenda For Trump and Lavrov, the included a discussion of agenda included a discussion of Ukraine and Syria, though from different perspectives. Ukraine and Syria, though from different perspectives. In advance of the meeting, Trump was given briefing In advance of the meeting, Trump was given briefing materials along with a cover memorandum highlighting the materials along with a cover memorandum highlighting the points his national security staff wanted him to raise with points his national security staff wanted him to raise with Lavrov. Normally, McMaster briefs Trump immediately Lavrov. Normally, McMaster briefs Trump immediately before a foreign leader meeting, but the senior before a foreign leader meeting, but the senior administration official did not know if he did so the administration official did not know if he did so the morning of Lavrovs visit. morning of Lavrovs visit. In the Obama era, there would be a pre brief and we would In the Obama era, there would be a pre brief and we would walk through all the talking points, said McFaul, who walk through all the talking points, said McFaul, who prepared Obama for his May 2009 Oval Office meeting with prepared Obama for his May 2009 Oval Office meeting with Lavrov. That would have been the moment to brief the Lavrov. That would have been the moment to brief the president about what is sensitive information and what is president about what is sensitive information and what is not.not. After last weeks meeting, Lavrov praised Trump. After last weeks meeting, Lavrov praised Trump. Addressing reporters at the Russian Embassy in Addressing reporters at the Russian Embassy in Washington, he said, The dialogue between Russia and the Washington, he said, The dialogue between Russia and the U.S. is now free from the ideology that characterized it U.S. is now free from the ideology that characterized it under the Barack Obama administration. under the Barack Obama administration. The story must be told. Your subscription supports journalism that matters. Try 1 month for 99 https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 6/8 2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post Lavrov dismissed allegations of Russian interference in the Lavrov dismissed allegations of Russian interference in the U.S. election as a fictional narrative  apparently one U.S. election as a fictional narrative  apparently one issue on which he and Trump agree. The president has issue on which he and Trump agree. The president has called investigations into Russias meddling a taxpayer  called investigations into Russias meddling a taxpayer  funded charade and a total hoax. funded charade and a total hoax. None of us touched on that bacchanalia, Lavrov said, an None of us touched on that bacchanalia, Lavrov said, an apparent reference to the Roman festival of drunken apparent reference to the Roman festival of drunken revelry. revelry. Speaking the next day in Alaska, Lavrov said the most Speaking the next day in Alaska, Lavrov said the most important takeaway from his Oval Office visit had been that important takeaway from his Oval Office visit had been that President Trump reaffirmed his resolve to normalize President Trump reaffirmed his resolve to normalize relations. He later wrote about this on Twitter. relations. He later wrote about this on Twitter. Trump tweeted Trump a picture of himself posing with Lavrov  tweeted a picture of himself posing with Lavrov  alongside a second picture from a meeting his aides had alongside a second picture from a meeting his aides had kept secret from reporters, showing him grinning behind kept secret from reporters, showing him grinning behind the Resolute Desk with Pavlo Klimkin, Ukraines foreign the Resolute Desk with Pavlo Klimkin, Ukraines foreign minister, who met separately with Trump in the Oval Office minister, who met separately with Trump in the Oval Office on the same day. on the same day. Trump used a hashtag: #LetsMakePeace! Trump used a hashtag: #LetsMakePeace!  628 Comments    Philip Rucker is the White House Bureau Chief for The Washington Post. He previously has covered Congress, the Obama White House, and the 2012 and 2016 presidential campaigns. He joined The Post in 2005 as a local news reporter.  Follow @PhilipRucker Karen DeYoung is associate editor and senior national security correspondent for the Washington Post.  Follow @karendeyoung1 https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 7/8 2/23/25, 9:42 AM Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips   The Washington Post https://archive.ph/20170719220303/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside the oval office with trump and the russians broad smiles and loose lips/2017/0 8/8