2/23/25, 2:22 PM Iran Says It Finalized Deal to Buy Russian Aircraft Iran Says It Finalized Deal to Buy Russian Aircraft Latest Developments Iran has finalized plans to purchase military aircraft from Russia, Iranian state media reported on November 28. The aircraft include Su 35 fighter jets, Mi 28 attack helicopters, and Yak 130 combat trainer aircraft, said Iranian Deputy Defense Minister Mehdi Farahi. The Yak 130s began arriving in Iran in early September, but there has been no indication that Tehran has yet received the Su 35s or Mi  28s. Moscow has not confirmed the deal. Expert Analysis Caution is warranted regarding this latest report, as Iranian officials have previously purported to have finalized a deal for the Su 35. Still, its clear that Russia and Iran are deepening their military military and military technical ties. If Moscow ultimately does provide Su 35s to Tehran, Moscow may get Iranian short range ballistic missiles in return, expanding Russias capacity for long range strikes against Ukraine.  John Hardie, Deputy Director of FDDs Russia Program Su 35s would represent a significant improvement over the aircraft Iran currently possesses, but the degree of improvement will depend on several variables  including the weapons, training, and other capabilities that accompany the aircraft  as well as the degree to which they are integrated with Irans formidable integrated air and missile defense systems. Regardless, security cooperation between Russia and Iran is growing, and that is a serious problem for Europeans, Americans, Israelis, and Arab partners of the United States. Instead of worrying about the problem separately, Washington and its allies and partners should act collectively to counter the growing Russian Iranian axis.  Bradley Bowman, Senior Director of FDDs Center on Military and Political Power Seeing is believing when it comes to the Su 35 deal. If Iran does receive these aircraft, it will not turn Iran into a conventional military superpower overnight. However, they will make the Islamic Republic a more potent hybrid military actor. Su 35s, coupled with Tehrans domestic and foreign air defense systems, would better equip Iran to defend its skies. This, in turn, would complicate Western military planning, which must ensure that a credible threat against Irans nuclear program remains on the table no matter the regimes evolving military aptitudes.  Behnam Ben Taleblu, FDD Senior Fellow Russia Iran Su 35 Saga In September 2022, Brigadier General Hamid Vahedi, commander of the Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force, said Tehran hoped to buy Su 35 fighter jets. Iran reportedly may acquire as many as 24 Su 35s originally intended for Egypt, which backed out of the deal under U.S. pressure. In December 2022, U.S. officials said Iranian pilots had trained on the Su 35 in Russia the previous spring, indicating Tehran may begin receiving the aircraft within the next year. The officials described the potential deal as part of Russias unprecedented level of military technical support for Iran in exchange for Tehrans aid for Moscows war against Ukraine. read://https_www.fdd.org/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.fdd.org%2Fanalysis%2F2023%2F11%2F29%2Firan says it finalized deal to buy russian aircraft%2F 1/2 2/23/25, 2:22 PM Iran Says It Finalized Deal to Buy Russian Aircraft Earlier this year, various Iranian officials and media said Tehran indeed planned to purchase Su 35s from Russia, while satellite imagery indicated that Iran was preparing to station the Su 35s at a new underground airbase. But Vahedi and Irans defense minister later appeared to suggest the deal was in doubt. Israeli, Saudi, and Emirati officials have reportedly lobbied Moscow not to go through with the sale. Related Analysis Iran and Russia Deepen Ties as Russian Defense Minister Visits Tehran, FDD Flash Brief Russia and Iran Deepen Military Cooperation, FDD Flash Brief Iran Agrees to Purchase Russian Fighter Jets, FDD Flash Brief Eyeing Tehran, U.S. and GCC Partners Seek to Develop Regional Security Architecture, FDD Flash Brief read://https_www.fdd.org/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.fdd.org%2Fanalysis%2F2023%2F11%2F29%2Firan says it finalized deal to buy russian aircraft%2F 2/2