2/23/25, 3:11 PM Tesla is having major issue with its self driving computer inside new cars Tesla is having major issue with its self driving computer inside new cars Brand new Tesla vehicles are experiencing self driving computer failures, which are resulting in significant problems. Inside sources say that the problem is contributing to overwhelming Teslas service. Over the last few weeks, Electrek has received several reports from new Tesla buyers claiming computer failures on brand new cars. We have been investigating the problem, and based on insider sources and documents that we obtained, we can now explain the issue in more detail. The problem is linked to a new version of Teslas HW4 (sometimes called AI4) onboard self driving computer. Internally, some refer to the new version as AI4.1. The computers are short circuiting. The cause is still being investigated, but one source told Electrek that one of the possible causes is the low  voltage battery short circuiting the computer during the camera calibration process. Advertisement   scroll for more content Tesla drivers are reporting computer failures after driving off with their brand new cars over just the first few tens to hundreds of miles. Wide ranging features powered by the computer, like active safety features, cameras, and even GPS, navigation, and range estimations, fail to work. Insider sources told Electrek that the problem is quite wide ranging. It affects vehicles built over the last few months with the new computer. Two sources said that Tesla is currently receiving a high number of complaints about this issue, and it has yet to release a service bulletin about it. One source said that Tesla service is being told to play read://https_electrek.co/?url=https%3A%2F%2Felectrek.co%2F2024%2F12%2F16%2Ftesla major issue self driving computer inside new cars%2F 1/2 2/23/25, 3:11 PM Tesla is having major issue with its self driving computer inside new cars down any safety concerns related to this problem to avoid people believing their brand new cars are not drivable. The issue arose at the end of the year when Tesla is trying to deliver a record number of vehicles to avoid its whole year down in deliveries   a first in a decade. Its unclear if Tesla reported the issue to NHTSA despite the fact that the broken rear view camera goes against federal safety regulations, which should force a recall. At the moment, the main remedy being discussed is a computer replacement, but Tesla is also looking to push a software patch to help temporarily. Tesla service is currently being overwhelmed by the issue, and Tesla is pushing service appointments to next year. Electreks Take I am not hating here. This is a significant issue that customers should be aware of. It is significant enough that several inside sources decided to reach out about it, and many customers are complaining about the issue. It is worrying that Tesla has not issued a service bulletin about it, and Tesla service is told to downplay the problem at the end of the quarter. I would expect NHTSA to issue a recall here, and Tesla could be in trouble for downplaying an issue that has been going on for weeks, but I dont think thats going to happen considering what the Trump transition team, in which Tesla CEO Elon Musk is greatly involved, is signaling to the federal agency. We are in for an interesting few years regarding auto safety in the US. read://https_electrek.co/?url=https%3A%2F%2Felectrek.co%2F2024%2F12%2F16%2Ftesla major issue self driving computer inside new cars%2F 2/2