2/23/25, 3:12 PM Tesla named 'The Deadliest Car Brand in America', NHTSA data shows Tesla named 'The Deadliest Car Brand in America', NHTSA data shows iSeeCars has an interesting analysis of vehicle fatality rates (using the NHTSA Fatality Analysis Reporting System and then adjusted by miles traveled using iSeeCars own data) that reaches some fascinating (and, admittedly, grisly) conclusions. On one hand, the list confirms some basic vehicle safety concepts, like that the physics of a multi vehicle crash favor the larger vehicles, and so forth. Small vehicles (physics), sports cars (risk taking behavior) and some mainstream vehicles (perhaps just the sheer amount of them on the road?) tend to have the highest fatality rates. On the other hand, the brand with the highest number of fatal crashes per mile might surprise you. Its an American automaker, a relative newcomer, exclusively builds EVs and has arguably the most controversial (and richest) CEO in vehicular history. Yes, its Tesla. iSeeCars pegs the Tesla fatality rate at 5.6 accidents per billion vehicle miles traveled. This does not factor in any information about non  fatal crashes; it only includes FARS data in which at least one occupant died in the crash. Auto industry:What is the slowest selling car in America right now? Kia comes in at a close second, at 5.5 fatalities per billion miles, with Buick (4.8), Dodge (4.4) and Hyundai (3.9) rounding out the list. The average rate for all brands is 2.8, to put that in perspective. iSeeCars speculates that the biggest contributor to the fatality rates at a brand level is driver behavior, rather than vehicle design or size. A focused, alert driver, traveling at a legal or prudent speed, without being under the influence of drugs or alcohol, is the most likely to arrive safely regardless of the vehicle theyre driving, said Karl Brauer, iSeeCars Executive Analyst, in the report. Autonomous vehicles:How bad is Tesla's full self driving feature, actually? Third party testing bodes ill read://https_www.freep.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.freep.com%2Fstory%2Fmoney%2Fcars%2F2024%2F11%2F26%2Ftesla named deadliest car brand in a 1/2 2/23/25, 3:12 PM Tesla named 'The Deadliest Car Brand in America', NHTSA data shows Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Looking over the data of most dangerous cars, there are some broader trends. Small SUVs and subcompact cars fare badly, in general, with the Hyundai Venue topping the list at 13.9 fatalities per billion vehicle miles. But there are also some mainstream vehicles in the next size class up, like the Toyota Corolla Hybrid and the Honda CR V Hybrid, which have rates at 2.6 and 4.6 times the national average, respectively. What explains these vehicles  not particularly small, not particularly prone to rolling over, and not the choice for adrenaline junkies with lackluster decision making skills  ranking on this list? Its hard to say. As iSeeCars correctly points out, most of these vehicles have robust safety equipment and perform well in crash tests, so its not the fault of the cars themselves. In the truck category, medium size vehicles like the Nissan Frontier, Ford Ranger, Chevrolet Colorado, Toyota Tacoma and Jeep Gladiator flooded the zone, making up the top five in that order. No full size trucks made it onto the list. At least for pickups, size matters. Its worth noting that the iSeeCars report analyzed vehicles crashes between 2017 and 2022, and from model years 2018 to 2022. Vehicles that are out of production currently were excluded, as were low  volume vehicles. Photos by MotorTrend staff read://https_www.freep.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.freep.com%2Fstory%2Fmoney%2Fcars%2F2024%2F11%2F26%2Ftesla named deadliest car brand in a 2/2