2/23/25, 3:14 PM The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow In 1987, a young real estate developer traveled to the Soviet Union. The KGB almost certainly made the trip happen. Luke Harding is a foreign correspondent at the Guardian. Excerpted from the book Collusion: Secret Meetings, Dirty Money, and How Russia Helped Donald Trump Win published by Vintage Books, an imprint of The Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, a division of Penguin Random House LLC. Copyright 2017 by Luke Harding. It was 1984 and General Vladimir Alexandrovich Kryuchkov had a problem. The general occupied one of the KGBs most exalted posts. He was head of the First Chief Directorate, the prestigious KGB arm responsible for gathering foreign intelligence. Kryuchkov had begun his career with five years at the Soviet mission in Budapest under Ambassador Yuri Andropov. In 1967 Andropov became KGB chairman. Kryuchkov went to Moscow, took up a number of sensitive posts, and established a reputation as a devoted and hardworking officer. By 1984, Kryuchkovs directorate in Moscow was bigger than ever before12,000 officers, up from about 3,000 in the 1960s. His headquarters at Yasenevo, on the wooded southern outskirts of the city, was expanding: Workmen were busy constructing a 22 story annex and a new 11 story building. In politics, change was in the air. Soon a new man would arrive in the Kremlin, Mikhail Gorbachev. Gorbachevs policy of detente with the Westa refreshing contrast to the global confrontation of previous general secretariesmeant the directorates work abroad was more important than ever. read://https_www.politico.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fmagazine%2Fstory%2F2017%2F11%2F19%2Ftrump first moscow trip 215842%2F 1/7 2/23/25, 3:14 PM The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow Kryuchkov faced several challenges. First, a hawkish president, Ronald Reagan, was in power in Washington. The KGB regarded his two predecessors, Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter, as weak. By contrast Reagan was seen as a potent adversary. The directorate was increasingly preoccupied with what it believedwronglywas an American plot to conduct a preemptive nuclear strike against the USSR. It was around this time that Donald Trump appears to have attracted the attention of Soviet intelligence. How that happened, and where that relationship began, is an answer hidden somewhere in the KGB's secret archives. Assuming, that is, that the documents still exist. Trump's first visit to Soviet Moscow in 1987 looks, with hindsight, to be part of a pattern. The dossier by the former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele asserts that the Kremlin had been cultivating Trump for at least five years before his stunning victory in the 2016 US presidential election. This would take us back to around 2011 or 2012. In fact, the Soviet Union was interested in him too, three decades earlier. The top level of the Soviet diplomatic service arranged his 1987 Moscow visit. With assistance from the KGB. It took place while Kryuchkov was seeking to improve the KGB's operational techniques in one particular and sensitive area. The spy chief wanted KGB staff abroad to recruit more Americans. In addition to shifting politics in Moscow, Kryuchkovs difficulty had to do with intelligence gathering. The results from KGB officers abroad had been disappointing. Too often they would pretend to have obtained information from secret sources. In reality, they had recycled material from newspapers or picked up gossip over lunch with a journalist. Too many residencies had paper agents on their books: targets for recruitment who had nothing to do with real intelligence. Kryuchkov sent out a series of classified memos to KGB heads of station. Oleg Gordievskyformerly based in Denmark and then in Great Britaincopied them and passed them to British intelligence. He later co published them with the historian Christopher Andrew under the title Comrade Kryuchkovs Instructions: Top Secret Files on KGB Foreign Operations 1975 1985. In January 1984 Kryuchkov addressed the problem during a biannual review held in Moscow, and at a special conference six months later. The urgent subject: how to improve agent recruitment. The general urged his officers to be more creative. Previously they had relied on identifying candidates who showed ideological sympathy toward the USSR: leftists, trade unionists and so on. By the mid 1980s these were not so many. So KGB officers should make bolder use of material incentives: money. And use flattery, an important tool. The Center, as KGB headquarters was known, was especially concerned about its lack of success in recruiting US citizens, according to Andrew and Gordievsky. The PR Linethat is, the Political Intelligence Department stationed in KGB residencies abroadwas given explicit instructions to find U.S. targets to cultivate or, at the very least, official contacts. The main effort must be concentrated on acquiring valuable agents, Kryuchkov said. The memodated February 1, 1984was to be destroyed as soon as its contents had been read. It said that despite improvements in information gathering, the KGB has not had great success in operation against the main adversary [America]. One solution was to make wider use of the facilities of friendly intelligence servicesfor example, Czechoslovakian or East German spy networks. And: Further improvement in operational work with agents calls for fuller and wider utilisation of confidential and special unofficial contacts. These should be acquired chiefly among prominent figures in politics and society, and important representatives of business and science. These should not only read://https_www.politico.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fmagazine%2Fstory%2F2017%2F11%2F19%2Ftrump first moscow trip 215842%2F 2/7 2/23/25, 3:14 PM The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow supply valuable information but also actively influence a countrys foreign policy in a direction of advantage to the USSR. There were, of course, different stages of recruitment. Typically, a case officer would invite a target to lunch. The target would be classified as an official contact. If the target appeared responsive, he (it was rarely she) would be promoted to a subject of deep study, an obyekt razrabotki. The officer would build up a file, supplemented by official and covert material. That might include readouts from conversations obtained through bugging by the KGBs technical team. The KGB also distributed a secret personality questionnaire, advising case officers what to look for in a successful recruitment operation. In April 1985 this was updated for prominent figures in the West. The directorates aim was to draw the target into some form of collaboration with us. This could be as an agent, or confidential or special or unofficial contact. The form demanded basic detailsname, profession, family situation, and material circumstances. There were other questions, too: what was the likelihood that the subject could come to power (occupy the post of president or prime minister)? And an assessment of personality. For example: Are pride, arrogance, egoism, ambition or vanity among subjects natural characteristics? The most revealing section concerned kompromat. The document asked for: Compromising information about subject, including illegal acts in financial and commercial affairs, intrigues, speculation, bribes, graft  and exploitation of his position to enrich himself. Plus any other information that would compromise the subject before the countrys authorities and the general public. Naturally the KGB could exploit this by threatening disclosure. Finally, his attitude towards women is also of interest. The document wanted to know: Is he in the habit of having affairs with women on the side? When did the KGB open a file on Donald Trump? We dont know, but Eastern Bloc security service records suggest this may have been as early as 1977. That was the year when Trump married Ivana Zelnickova, a twenty eight year old model from Czechoslovakia. Zelnickova was a citizen of a communist country. She was therefore of interest both to the Czech intelligence service, the StB, and to the FBI and CIA. During the Cold War, Czech spies were known for their professionalism. Czech and Hungarian officers were typically used in espionage actions abroad, especially in the United States and Latin America. They were less obvious than Soviet operatives sent by Moscow. Zelnickova was born in Zlin, an aircraft manufacturing town in Moravia. Her first marriage was to an Austrian real estate agent. In the early 1970s she moved to Canada, first to Toronto and then to Montreal, to be with a ski instructor boyfriend. Exiting Czechoslovakia during this period was, the files said, incredibly difficult. Zelnickova moved to New York. In April 1977 she married Trump. According to files in Prague, declassified in 2016, Czech spies kept a close eye on the couple in Manhattan. (The agents who undertook this task were code named Al Jarza and Lubos.) They opened letters sent home by Ivana to her father, Milos, an engineer. Milos was never an agent or asset. But he had a functional relationship with the Czech secret police, who would ask him how his daughter was doing abroad and in return permit her visits home. There was periodic surveillance of the Trump family in the United States. And when Ivana and Donald Trump, Jr., visited Milos in the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, further spying, or cover. Like with other Eastern Bloc agencies, the Czechs would have shared their intelligence product with their counterparts in Moscow, the KGB. Trump may have been of interest for several reasons. One, his wife came from Eastern Europe. Twoat a time after 1984 when the Kremlin was experimenting with read://https_www.politico.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fmagazine%2Fstory%2F2017%2F11%2F19%2Ftrump first moscow trip 215842%2F 3/7 2/23/25, 3:14 PM The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow perestroika, or Communist Party reformTrump had a prominent profile as a real estate developer and tycoon. According to the Czech files, Ivana mentioned her husbands growing interest in politics. Might Trump at some stage consider a political career? The KGB wouldnt invite someone to Moscow out of altruism. Dignitaries flown to the USSR on expenses paid trips were typically left leaning writers or cultural figures. The state would expend hard currency; the visitor would say some nice things about Soviet life; the press would report these remarks, seeing in them a stamp of approval. Despite Gorbachevs policy of engagement, he was still a Soviet leader. The KGB continued to view the West with deep suspicion. It carried on with efforts to subvert Western institutions and acquire secret sources, with NATO its No. 1 strategic intelligence target. At this point it is unclear how the KGB regarded Trump. To become a full KGB agent, a foreigner had to agree to two things. (An agent in a Russian or British context was a secret intelligence source.) One was conspiratorial collaboration. The other was willingness to take KGB instruction. According to Andrew and Gordievskys book Comrade Kryuchkovs Instructions, targets who failed to meet these criteria were classified as confidential contacts. The Russian word was doveritelnaya svyaz. The aspiration was to turn trusted contacts into full blown agents, an upper rung of the ladder. As Kryuchkov explained, KGB residents were urged to abandon stereotyped methods of recruitment and use more flexible strategiesif necessary getting their wives or other family members to help. As Trump tells it, the idea for his first trip to Moscow came after he found himself seated next to the Soviet ambassador Yuri Dubinin. This was in autumn 1986; the event was a luncheon held by Leonard Lauder, the businessman son of Este Lauder. Dubinins daughter Natalia had read about Trump Tower and knew all about it, Trump said in his 1987 bestseller, The Art of the Deal. Trump continued: One thing led to another, and now Im talking about building a large luxury hotel, across the street from the Kremlin, in partnership with the Soviet government. Trumps chatty version of events is incomplete. According to Natalia Dubinina, the actual story involved a more determined effort by the Soviet government to seek out Trump. In February 1985 Kryuchkov complained again about the lack of appreciable results of recruitment against the Americans in most Residencies. The ambassador arrived in New York in March 1986. His original job was Soviet ambassador to the U.N.; his daughter Dubinina was already living in the city with her family, and she was part of the Soviet U.N. delegation. Dubinin wouldnt have answered to the KGB. And his role wasnt formally an intelligence one. But he would have had close contacts with the power apparatus in Moscow. He enjoyed greater trust than other, lesser ambassadors. Dubinina said she picked up her father at the airport. It was his first time in New York City. She took him on a tour. The first building they saw was Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, she told Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper. Dubinin was so excited he decided to go inside to meet the buildings owner. They got into the elevator. At the top, Dubinina said, they met Trump. The ambassadorfluent in English and a brilliant master of negotiationscharmed the busy Trump, telling him: The first thing I saw in the city is your tower! Dubinina said: Trump melted at once. He is an emotional person, somewhat impulsive. He needs recognition. And, of course, when he gets it he likes it. My fathers visit worked on him [Trump] like honey to a bee. read://https_www.politico.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fmagazine%2Fstory%2F2017%2F11%2F19%2Ftrump first moscow trip 215842%2F 4/7 2/23/25, 3:14 PM The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow This encounter happened six months before the Este Lauder lunch. In Dubininas account she admits her father was trying to hook Trump. The man from Moscow wasnt a wide eyed rube but a veteran diplomat who served in France and Spain, and translated for Nikita Khrushchev when he met with Charles de Gaulle at the Elyse Palace in Paris. He had seen plenty of impressive buildings. Weeks after his first Trump meeting, Dubinin was named Soviet ambassador to Washington. Dubininas own role is interesting. According to a foreign intelligence archive smuggled to the West, the Soviet mission to the U.N. was a haven for the KGB and GRU (Soviet military intelligence). Many of the 300 Soviet nationals employed at the U.N. secretariat were Soviet intelligence officers working undercover, including as personal assistants to secretary generals. The Soviet U.N. delegation had greater success in finding agents and gaining political intelligence than the KGBs New York residency. Dubinins other daughter, Irina, said that her late fatherhe died in 2013was on a mission as ambassador. This was, she said, to make contact with Americas business elite. For sure, Gorbachevs Politburo was interested in understanding capitalism. But Dubinins invitation to Trump to visit Moscow looks like a classic cultivation exercise, which would have had the KGBs full support and approval. In The Art of the Deal, Trump writes: In January 1987, I got a letter from Yuri Dubinin, the Soviet ambassador to the United States, that began: It is a pleasure for me to relay some good news from Moscow. It went on to say that the leading Soviet state agency for international tourism, Goscomintourist, had expressed interest in pursuing a joint venture to construct and manage a hotel in Moscow. There were many ambitious real estate developers in the United Stateswhy had Moscow picked Trump? According to Viktor Suvorova former GRU military spyand others, the KGB ran Intourist, the agency to which Trump referred. It functioned as a subsidiary KGB branch. Initiated in 1929 by Stalin, Intourist was the Soviet Unions official state travel agency. Its job was to vet and monitor all foreigners coming into the Soviet Union. In my time it was KGB, Suvorov said. They gave permission for people to visit. The KGBs first and second directorates routinely received lists of prospective visitors to the country based on their visa applications. As a GRU operative, Suvorov was personally involved in recruitment, albeit for a rival service to the KGB. Soviet spy agencies were always interested in cultivating young ambitious people, he saidan upwardly mobile businessman, a scientist, a guy with a future. Once in Moscow, they would receive lavish hospitality. Everything is free. There are good parties with nice girls. It could be a sauna and girls and who knows what else. The hotel rooms or villa were under 24 hour control, with security cameras and so on, Suvorov said. The interest is only one. To collect some information and keep that information about him for the future. These dirty tricks operations were all about the long term, Suvorov said. The KGB would expend effort on visiting students from the developing world, not least Africa. After 10 or 20 years, some of them would be nobody. But others would have risen to positions of influence in their own countries. Suvorov explained: Its at this point you say: Knock, knock! Do you remember the marvelous time in Moscow? It was a wonderful evening. You were so drunk. You dont remember? We just show you something for your good memory. Over in the communist German Democratic Republic, one of Kryuchkovs 34 year old officersone Vladimir Putinwas busy trying to recruit students from Latin America. Putin arrived in Dresden in read://https_www.politico.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fmagazine%2Fstory%2F2017%2F11%2F19%2Ftrump first moscow trip 215842%2F 5/7 2/23/25, 3:14 PM The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow August 1985, together with his pregnant wife, Lyudmila, and one year old daughter, Maria. They lived in a KGB apartment block. According to the writer Masha Gessen, one of Putins tasks was to try to befriend foreigners studying at the Dresden University of Technology. The hope was that, if recruited, the Latin Americans might work in the United States as undercover agents, reporting back to the Center. Putin set about this together with two KGB colleagues and a retired Dresden policeman. New Window From COLLUSION: SECRET MEETINGS, DIRTY MONEY, AND HOW RUSSIA HELPED DONALD TRUMP WIN, by Luke Harding Precisely what Putin did while working for the KGBs First Directorate in Dresden is unknown. It may have included trying to recruit Westerners visiting Dresden on business and East Germans with relatives in the West. Putins efforts, Gessen suggests, were mostly a failure. He did manage to recruit a Colombian student. Overall his operational results were modest. By January 1987, Trump was closer to the prominent person status of Kryuchkovs note. Dubinin deemed Trump interesting enough to arrange his trip to Moscow. Another thirtysomething U.S. based Soviet diplomat, Vitaly Churkinthe future U.N. ambassadorhelped put it together. On July 4, 1987, Trump flew to Moscow for the first time, together with Ivana and Lisa Calandra, Ivanas Italian  American assistant. Moscow was, Trump wrote, an extraordinary experience. The Trumps stayed in Lenins suite at the National Hotel, at the bottom of Tverskaya Street, near Red Square. Seventy years earlier, in October 1917, Lenin and his wife, Nadezhda Krupskaya, had spent a week in room 107. The hotel was linked to the glass and concrete Intourist complex next door and was in effectunder KGB control. The Lenin suite would have been bugged. Meanwhile, the mausoleum containing the Bolshevik leaders embalmed corpse was a short walk away. Other Soviet leaders were interred beneath the Kremlins wall in a communist pantheon: Stalin, Brezhnev, AndropovKryuchkovs old mentorand Dzerzhinsky. According to The Art of the Deal, Trump toured a half dozen potential sites for a hotel, including several near Red Square. I was impressed with the ambition of Soviet officials to make a deal, he writes. He also visited Leningrad, later St. Petersburg. A photo shows Donald and Ivana standing in Palace Squarehe in a suit, she in a red polka dot blouse with a string of pearls. Behind them are the Winter Palace and the state Hermitage museum. That July the Soviet press wrote enthusiastically about the visit of a foreign celebrity. This was Gabriel Garca Mrquez, the Nobel Prize winning novelist and journalist. Pravda featured a long conversation between the Colombian guest and Gorbachev. Garca Mrquez spoke of how South Americans, himself included, sympathized with socialism and the USSR. Moscow brought Garca Mrquez over for a film festival. Trumps visit appears to have attracted less attention. There is no mention of him in Moscows Russian State Library newspaper archive. (Either his visit went unreported or any articles featuring it have been quietly removed.) Press clippings do record a visit by a West German official and an Indian cultural festival. The KGBs private dossier on Trump, by contrast, would have gotten larger. The agencys multipage profile would have been enriched with fresh material, including anything gleaned via eavesdropping. Nothing came of the tripat least nothing in terms of business opportunities inside Russia. This pattern of failure would be repeated in Trumps subsequent trips to Moscow. But Trump flew back to read://https_www.politico.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fmagazine%2Fstory%2F2017%2F11%2F19%2Ftrump first moscow trip 215842%2F 6/7 2/23/25, 3:14 PM The Hidden History of Trumps First Trip to Moscow New York with a new sense of strategic direction. For the first time he gave serious indications that he was considering a career in politics. Not as mayor or governor or senator. Trump was thinking about running for president. read://https_www.politico.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Fmagazine%2Fstory%2F2017%2F11%2F19%2Ftrump first moscow trip 215842%2F 7/7