2/23/25, 9:12 AM Senators Ask for an Investigation into Trump Dealings in Azerbaijan | The New Yorker News Desk Senators Ask for an Investigation into Trump Dealings in Azerbaijan By Adam Davidson March 30, 2017 The Trump International Hotel & Tower Baku, a project overseen by Ivanka Trump on behalf of her fathers company. PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVIDE MONTELEONE FOR THE NEW YORKER https://12ft.io/proxy 1/6 2/23/25, 9:12 AM Senators Ask for an Investigation into Trump Dealings in Azerbaijan | The New Yorker Save this story The ranking Democratic members of the Senates Foreign Relations, Banking, and Judiciary committees have written a joint letter to several Trump Administration officials asking them to address the possibility that the Trump Organization violated several laws in its dealings in Azerbaijan. The concerns raised in the letter are based on an article I wrote in The New Yorker about the Trump International Hotel & Tower Baku, a project that was nearly completed but never opened. The letter, by Senators Sherrod Brown, of Ohio, Dianne Feinstein, of California, and Ben Cardin, of Maryland, was sent to the Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, the Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin, and the F.B.I. director, James Comey. The senators wrote, It appears that the lack of due diligence by the Trump Organization described in the article exposed President Trump and his organization to notoriously corrupt Azerbaijani oligarchs, and may also have exposed the Trump Organization to the IRGCthe Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. Even though the Trump Organization appears to have withdrawn from the Baku Tower deal, serious questions remain unanswered about the Trump Organizations potential criminal liability. The article reports that the Trump Organization worked in partnership with companies run by Elton and Anar Mammadov on the Baku luxury hotel and residence, a project overseen by Ivanka Trump. Anar is the son of Ziya Mammadov, who was, until recently, the transportation minister of Azerbaijan. Elton was, at the time of the deal, a member of Azerbaijans parliament. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes it a crime for American companies to provide benefit to foreign government officials in hopes of profiting from their power. https://12ft.io/proxy 2/6 2/23/25, 9:12 AM Senators Ask for an Investigation into Trump Dealings in Azerbaijan | The New Yorker In their letter, the senators asked Sessions and Comey to assess whether the Trump Organization violated the law and whether it acted with willful blindness, a legal term referring to a deliberate effort to avoid learning about potentially illicit activity. The senators also asked Mnuchin to investigate serious questions about whether the Trump Organization may have become entangled with an IRGC front organization in violation of U.S. sanctions. As the New Yorker article spells out, U.S. Embassy officials in Azerbaijan have expressed the belief that Ziya Mammadov had an ongoing business relationship with an Iranian construction company, Azarpassillo, which shows many of the hallmarks of being a front for the Revolutionary Guard. The senators asked the Treasury Secretary to work with the director of national intelligence to produce a briefing on the relationship between the Mammadov family and the Revolutionary Guard. The letter also asks for the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control to open an investigation into whether or not the Trump Organization violated US sanctions law by receiving funds from a group linked to the Revolutionary Guard. The Trump Organization did not respond to a request for comment about this letter. However, its chief legal officer, Alan Garten, told The New Yorker earlier, We had no equity. We didnt control the project. The flow of funds is in the wrong direction. We did not pay any money to anyone. Therefore, it could not be a violation of the F.C.P.A. At time of publication, representatives for the Republican committee chairs had yet to respond to the call for an investigation. Adam Davidson is a former staff writer at The New Yorker. https://12ft.io/proxy 3/6 2/23/25, 9:12 AM Senators Ask for an Investigation into Trump Dealings in Azerbaijan | The New Yorker More: Azerbaijan Corruption Donald Trump Open Letters Read More A Reporter at Large Donald Trumps Worst Deal The President helped build a hotel in Azerbaijan that appears to be a corrupt operation engineered by oligarchs tied to Irans Revolutionary Guard. By Adam Davidson News Desk Your Questions About Donald Trumps Worst Deal, Answered By Adam Davidson Video How Will Trumps Presidency End? In the first of an ongoing series of panel discussions called Public Forum: A Well  Ordered Nation, David Remnick asks Salman Rushdie, Tony Kushner, and Q. & A. What Could Happen if the U.S. Abandons Europe Donald Trumps disdain for NATO will reshape the domestic politicsand military postureof some of Americas closest allies. By Isaac Chotiner The New Yorker Radio Hour Richard Brody Presents the 2025 Brody Awards https://12ft.io/proxy 4/6 2/23/25, 9:12 AM Senators Ask for an Investigation into Trump Dealings in Azerbaijan | The New Yorker Oscar who? The film critic, a true believer in the art of cinema, picks the winners of the most coveted award of all: the Brodys. The New Yorker Radio Hour John Fetterman on Trumps Raw Sewage, and What the Democrats Get Wrong The Pennsylvania senator says the Administration is dumping three feet of raw sewage on America, and we have a Dixie cup to bail it out. But Democrats have to work with Trump. Humor Daily Cartoon: Friday, February 21st No, Mr. Bond, I expect you to star in a series of increasingly bland spinoffs and TV shows that have significant viewership decline after the first episode. By Ellis Rosen Fault Lines A Profoundly Empathetic Book on Homelessness in the Bay Area Kevin Fagans new work moves beyond predictable policy critique to offer a powerful reminder of the moral side of the crisis. By Jay Caspian Kang Crossword The Mini Crossword: Friday, February 21, 2025 Meerkat who sings Hakuna Matata with Pumbaa, in The Lion King: five letters. By Kate Chin Park On Television The White Lotus Overstays Its Welcome https://12ft.io/proxy 5/6 2/23/25, 9:12 AM Senators Ask for an Investigation into Trump Dealings in Azerbaijan | The New Yorker In the third season of Mike Whites HBO satire of the rich and terrible, a now familiar formula yields diminishing returns. By Inkoo Kang The Lede Month One of Donald Trumps Golden Age Pennies, plane crashes, and constitutional crises as Washington enters its Dark MAGA era. By Antonia Hitchens Goings On Moby Dick Sets Sail at the Met Opera Also: the psychodramas of Father John Misty, a humble Henry IV, the return of the Flamenco Festival, and more. https://12ft.io/proxy 6/6