2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post archive.today webpage capture Saved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new boo history prior next All snapshots from host www.washingtonpost.com search 9 Oct 2024 10:51:42 UTC Webpage Screenshot share download .zip report bug or abuse Sign in Democracy Dies in Darkness Election 2024 Live updates 6 mins ago Harriss policy positions Presidential polls More Find results Trump secretly sent covid tests to Putin during 2020 shortage, new book says War, by Bob Woodward, traces how Trump and Biden responded to international crisis and concludes that Trump is worse than Nixon, the president exiled by the Watergate scandal. 12 min MOST READ POLITICS 1 Analysis | The hurricane X  factor in the 2024 election President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin before the start of their meeting in 2018 in Helsinki. (Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP) 2 5 key revelations from Bob Woodwards new book By Isaac Stanley Becker October 8, 2024 at 8:56 a.m. EDT 3 The fight for the House and Senate: Where things stand As the coronavirus tore through the world in 2020, and the United States and other countries confronted a shortage of tests designed to detect the illness, President Donald Trump 4 Column | Eleven years later, Trump may finally have the best friend he wanted secretly sent coveted tests to Russian President Vladimir Putin for his personal use. 5 The reasons people say they leave Donald Trumps rallies early Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter. https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 1/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post Putin, petrified of the virus, accepted the supplies but took pains to prevent political fallout  not for him, but for his American counterpart. He cautioned Trump not to reveal that he had dispatched the scarce medical equipment to Moscow, according to a new book by Washington Post associate editor Bob Woodward. Putin, according to the book, told Trump, I dont want you to tell anybody because people will get mad at you, not me. Four years later, the personal relationship between the two LIVE UPDATES POLITICS men appears to have persisted, Woodward reports, as Trump campaigns to return to the White House and Putin orchestrates his bloody assault on Ukraine. In early 2024, the former president ordered an aide away from his office at Mar a Lago, his private club and residence in Florida, so he could conduct a private phone call with the Russian leader, according to Woodwards account. The book does not describe what the two men purportedly discussed, and it quotes a Trump campaign official casting 11:42 PM Harris talks Gaza cease fire, Woodwards new reporting on Trump with Colbert doubt on the supposed contact. But the unnamed Trump aide cited in the book indicated that the GOP standard  bearer may have spoken to Putin as many as seven times 11:16 PM Vance calls for Israeli defense unrestrained by U.S. since Trump left the White House in 2021. These interactions between Trump and the authoritarian leader of a country at war with an American ally form the 10:57 PM Romney: Trump spreads so much disinformation that the Chinese must be smiling basis of Woodwards conclusion that Trump is worse than Richard M. Nixon, whose presidency was undone by the Watergate scandal exposed a half century ago by Woodward 10:10 PM Trump saw Harris on 60 Minutes, says she sounds like a person with a very low IQ and his Washington Post colleague Carl Bernstein. Trump was the most reckless and impulsive president in 9:40 PM 5 key revelations from Bob Woodwards new book American history and is demonstrating the very same character as a presidential candidate in 2024, Woodward writes in the book, War, which is set to be released Oct. 15. Trump campaign spokesman Steven Cheung said, None of MOST READ these made up stories by Bob Woodward are true, issuing a string of personal attacks on the author and saying Trump didnt give him an interview for the book. Cheung argued https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 2/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post that the book either belongs in the bargain bin of the fiction section of a discount bookstore or used as toilet tissue. With publication on the eve of the presidential election, Woodward, who has chronicled the successes and failures of U.S. presidents for 50 years, concludes that Trump is unfit for office while President Joe Biden and his team, mistakes notwithstanding, exhibited steady and purposeful 1 Hurricane Milton tracker: Map and projected storm path leadership. Vice President Kamala Harris, the Democratic presidential nominee, makes several appearances in the narrative, with Woodward presenting her as a shrewd and 2 Review | In the pantheon of first lady memoirs, Melania Trumps is something else loyal No. 2 to Biden but not an influential voice in his administrations foreign policy. 3 City by city forecasts as Hurricane Milton sweeps toward Floridas west coast The book is Woodwards fourth since Trumps upset victory in 2016. It focuses principally on the twin wars consuming Bidens national security team  Russias all out war in 4 Live updates: Hurricane Milton expected to make landfall in Florida Ukraine, which began in February 2022, and Israels campaign against Hamas and other Iranian backed proxies since the Hamas attacks of Oct. 7, 2023. 5 What is making Hurricane Milton so ferocious The book also examines the long shadow cast by Trump over the foreign conflicts of the past four years and over the bitter U.S. political environment in which they have unfolded. And it includes candid assessments by Biden of his own missteps, including his decision to make Merrick Garland attorney general. Reacting to the prosecution of his son Hunter  by a special prosecutor named by Garland amid partisan recriminations over the Justice Departments prosecution of Trump  the president told an associate, Should never have picked Garland. Woodward reveals how Biden weighed his fate before exiting the presidential race in July, including over lunch earlier that month with Antony Blinken, his secretary of state. Blinken, reports Woodward, warned Biden in the private dining room off the Oval Office that everyones legacy is reduced to a single sentence  and that, if he continued to campaign and lost to Trump, that would be his legacy. Still, Blinken believed at the end of the meal that the president was leaning toward staying in the race, https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 3/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post underscoring how unpredictable Bidens decision making remained until the final moment. War illuminates the frantic, and often failed, effort by Bidens team to prevent escalation of fighting in the Middle East  fighting that the president came to see as inseparable from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus political fortunes, and from political dynamics in the United States, too. According to Woodward, one of Trumps national security advisers, Keith Kellogg, secretly met with Netanyahu during a trip to Israel earlier this year. Upon his return, Kellogg publicly circulated a memo effectively blaming Biden for the Hamas led attack on Israel, writing, This visit reinforced that the Biden Administrations erosion of U.S. deterrence globally and its failed policies vis  vis Iran have opened America up to a regional war in the Middle East with devastating consequences for our ally Israel. At the time, Biden advisers were pushing Israels leaders to agree to a cease fire deal as part of an effort to head off an invasion of Rafah, in the southern Gaza Strip. Their entreaties were futile; the Rafah offensive began in May. No one felt the limits of the administrations ability to restrain Israel more acutely than Blinken. It was obvious Blinken had no influence, Woodward writes. On Ukraine, too, Trumps influence was pronounced, even from his home at Mar a Lago. The former presidents resistance to funding Kyivs war effort created a blockade on GOP support in the House. This past spring, House Speaker Mike Johnson (R La.) was able to persuade Trump to soften his stance, according to Woodward, not by showing him that Ukraines cause was just, but by convincing him that the aid package would help the Republican conferences electoral chances and thus benefit him personally in the run up to the November election. War offers several snapshots of Harris, always in a supporting role to Biden and hardly determining foreign policy herself. https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 4/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post The book recounts how Harris sought to spur French President Emmanuel Macron into action in the fall of 2021, in preparation for what the U.S. intelligence community indicated would be a significant Russian military action against Ukraine. So, too, the vice president made her case to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky at the Munich Security Conference in February 2022, going so far as to press him to develop a succession plan ensuring stability if youre captured or killed, as she put it. And the book reveals how her forceful public tone following a meeting in July with Netanyahu  pledging that she would not be silent about Palestinian suffering  contrasted with her more amicable approach in private. The difference, according to Woodward, infuriated Netanyahu, who was taken aback by her public remarks. From the Israeli viewpoint, however, Harris had little responsibility for the administrations approach to the conflict. Until now, I didnt feel that Vice President Harris had any impact on our issues, Michael Herzog, the Israeli ambassador in Washington, is quoted as saying about the period before Harris replaced Biden on the ticket. She was in the room, but she never had an impact. As for Trumps own decision making process on foreign affairs when he was commander in chief, the book shows how he took in a wide range of viewpoints, including from people without relevant expertise. During a high level meeting about Afghanistan held at one point in the Situation Room, Trump went around the table to ask everyones opinion. Mr. President, Im the notetaker, one person deflected. Oh, no, Trump replied, if youre in this room, youre talking. The notetaker briefly shared her views. War presents the withdrawal from Afghanistan, in the summer of 2021, as a wound for the Biden administration that would shape its response to other international flash points. The debacle, in which U.S. intelligence failed to https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 5/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post foresee how quickly the Taliban would seize power, elicited sympathy from the architect of the initial 2001 invasion, George W. Bush, who told Biden, according to the book: Oh boy, I can understand what youre going through. I got [expletive] by my intel people, too. Woodward contrasts the intelligence failure in Afghanistan to the remarkable insight gained by American spies into Russian plans ahead of its full scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. U.S. capabilities, Woodward reports, included a human source inside the Kremlin. The book shows how Bidens early decisions, which were sometimes in conflict with the judgments of his closest advisers, shaped the course of the war. Foremost was his public vow that Washington would not commit troops to the conflict, which took a key bargaining chip off the table but laid down a marker for the American public wary of new foreign entanglements. Biden, according to Woodward, felt past Russian aggression had been badly mismanaged by his predecessors, including the one he had served, Barack Obama. Barack never took Putin seriously, Biden told a close friend. Bidens own blunders were costly, the book reveals. In January 2022, he seemed to undercut American resolve by raising the possibility that Russia might seek only a minor incursion. His national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, had to do damage control with counterparts in nine NATO countries, in addition to Japan, Woodward reveals. Woodward writes that Bidens most delicate diplomacy, however, involved seeking to foreclose Russias nuclear option. In the fall of 2022, that option seemed like a live one, as U.S. intelligence agencies reported that Putin was seriously weighing use of a tactical nuclear weapon  at one point assessing the likelihood at 50 percent. An especially frantic quest to bring Moscow back from the brink came in October of that year, when Russia appeared to be laying the groundwork for escalation by accusing Ukraine of preparing to detonate a dirty bomb. https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 6/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post Bidens team confronted similar hair raising moments with the Israelis, Woodward reports, foreshadowing Netanyahus recent campaign against Hezbollah, the Lebanon based militant group and Iranian proxy, in an explicit rejection of U.S. calls for a cease fire. In a parallel of unsubstantiated Russian claims of Ukraines intention to use a dirty bomb, the Israelis seemed poised, in the days after Oct. 7, 2023, to launch a preemptive strike against Hezbollah based on what American experts deemed phantom warnings of Hezbollah mobilization along Israels northern border. The Israelis always do this, was the reaction of Brett McGurk, Bidens Middle East coordinator, according to the book. They claim We got the intel! Youll see it. Youll see it. But like 50 percent of the time the so called intel doesnt actually show up. Apparent drones reported by the Israelis turned out to be birds. Yet the book also shows how the Biden administration did little to alter its policy toward Israel even as senior U.S. officials abandoned their belief that the government in Jerusalem was operating in good faith. Already in the days after Oct. 7, Blinkens impression of Defense Minister Yoav Gallants approach was: It doesnt matter how many people die. I have a mission to eradicate Hamas and it doesnt matter how many Palestinians die. It doesnt matter how many Israelis die. Biden, according to Woodward, was cautious about setting limits on Israels conduct lest Netanyahu blow past them. In a one on one call in April, Netanyahu promised Biden that the Rafah offensive would take only three weeks, a vow the American president never took seriously. Itll take months, Biden replied. To associates, Biden complained that Netanyahu was a liar only interested in his political survival. And he concluded the same of the prime ministers associates, saying that 18 out of 19 people who work for Netanyahu are liars. At the same time, support for the Biden administrations Middle East policy came from unexpected places, the book reveals. Before the Oct. 7 attacks, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R  https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 7/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post S.C.), a loyal Trump lieutenant and shape shifter who went from an outspoken critic of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to a trusted interlocutor, had relayed information to Biden about prospects for the normalization of relations between Saudi Arabia and Israel. Graham believed normalization was best completed under Biden, arguing that congressional Democrats would be reluctant to lend support to a Trump sponsored initiative. Graham promised he could deliver the Republican votes. After Oct. 7, Graham continued to engage with the crown prince. During a March visit by the senator to Riyadh, which is recounted by Woodward, Graham proposed a phone call with Trump, so the crown prince pulled out a burner phone labeled TRUMP 45. In earlier meetings, the crown prince had brandished other such devices, including one labeled JAKE SULLIVAN for Bidens national security adviser. During the March call with Trump, conducted by the crown prince over speakerphone while Graham was present, the former president teased the senator for once calling for the Saudi royals ouster over the assassination of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi, which the CIA concluded Mohammed had ordered. Graham brushed it off, professing to have been wrong about the autocrat. The royal court in Riyadh, however, is not the comparison Graham uses when describing visits to Trumps residence at Mar a Lago. According to Woodward, the senator invokes an even more brutal form of authoritarianism. Going to Mar a Lago is a little bit like going to North Korea, the book quotes Graham as saying. Everybody stands up and claps every time Trump comes in. Election 2024 Follow live updates on the 2024 election and Vice President Kamala Harris and former president Donald Trump from our reporters on the campaign trail and in Washington. VP debate: Here are fact checks and key takeaways from the vice  presidential debate between JD Vance and Tim Walz. The Washington Post once again asked swing state voters for their real time reactions to the debate, heres what they had to say on who won. https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 8/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post Policy positions: Weve collected Harriss and Trumps stances on the most important issues  abortion, economic policy, immigration and more. Show more Presidential polls: Check out how Harris and Trump stack up Share Comments ELECTION 2024 HAND CURATED Election 2024 live updates: Harris appears on The View, with Howard Stern, Stephen Colbert Who is ahead in Harris vs. Trump 2024 presidential polls right now? Democrats try Trump  proofing their states ahead of Election Day October 6, 2024 October 8, 2024 October 8, 2024 By Isaac Stanley Becker Isaac Stanley Becker is an investigative reporter on the national staff. isaacstanbecker https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 9/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post Sign up Subscribe to comment and get the full experience. Choose your plan  Company Get The Post Contact Us Terms of Use About The Post Become a Subscriber Contact the Newsroom Digital Products Terms of Sale Newsroom Policies & Standards Gift Subscriptions Contact Customer Care Print Products Terms of Sale Diversity & Inclusion Mobile & Apps Contact the Opinions Team Terms of Service Careers Newsletters & Alerts Advertise Privacy Policy Media & Community Relations Washington Post Live Licensing & Syndication Cookie Settings WP Creative Group Reprints & Permissions Request a Correction Submissions & Discussion Policy Accessibility Statement Post Store Send a News Tip RSS Terms of Service Sitemap Books & E Books Report a Vulnerability Ad Choices Todays Paper Public Notices washingtonpost.com  1996 2024 The Washington Post https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 10/11 2/23/25, 2:01 PM Bob Woodwards new book War reports Trump gave Putin covid tests in 2020   The Washington Post https://archive.ph/20241009105142/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/10/08/bob woodward new book war trump putin biden/ 11/11