2/23/25, 9:46 AM D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   The Washington Post archive.today webpage capture Saved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit tru no other snapshots from this url Redirected from https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit tru no other snapshots from this url search 19 Jul 2017 22:02:16 UTC All snapshots from host www.washingtonpost.com Linked from en.wikipedia.org  Blumenthal v. Trump en.wikipedia.org  Donald Trump and golf en.wikipedia.org  User:Dakleman/Comparison of Claims Webpage Screenshot share download .zip report bug or abuse  Sections  Sign In Subscribe Democracy Dies in Darkness    Investigations     D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   (Reuters) (Reuters)  2.4k June 12  By By Aaron C. Davis Aaron C. Davis and and Karen Tumulty Karen Tumulty June 12 Most Read Democratic state attorneys general, a chief roadblock to Democratic state attorneys general, a chief roadblock to some of President Trumps most controversial policies, some of President Trumps most controversial policies, 1 Trumps penchant for extremes worked on the campaign trail but hinders his White House escalated their campaign against him Monday, alleging in a escalated their campaign against him Monday, alleging in a lawsuit that payments by foreign governments to Trumps lawsuit that payments by foreign governments to Trumps businesses violate anti corruption clauses in the businesses violate anti corruption clauses in the Constitution. Constitution. 2 Its an insane process: How Trump and Republicans failed on their health  care bill The lawsuit, the first of its kind brought by government The lawsuit, the first of its kind brought by government entities, marks a turning point for Democratic attorneys entities, marks a turning point for Democratic attorneys general and showcases their increasingly influential role in general and showcases their increasingly influential role in Washington at a time when their party is largely shut out of Washington at a time when their party is largely shut out of 3 Analysis There are no notes on Trumps meeting with Putin. Thats a big deal. power. power. D.C. Attorney General Karl A. Racine and Maryland D.C. Attorney General Karl A. Racine and Maryland Attorney General Brian E. Frosh say in the lawsuit that Attorney General Brian E. Frosh say in the lawsuit that 4 Opinion Callista Gingrichs nomination to the Vatican stinks to high heaven Trumps decision to retain ownership of his business Trumps decision to retain ownership of his business empire, and from inside the White House, calls into empire, and from inside the White House, calls into 5 Perspective https://archive.ph/20170719220216/https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause/2017/0 1/7 2/23/25, 9:46 AM D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   The Washington Post question the rule of law and the integrity of the countrys question the rule of law and the integrity of the countrys The harbingers of doom for the Trump administration political system. political system. At a news conference, Racine and Frosh accused Trump of At a news conference, Racine and Frosh accused Trump of flagrantly violating the Constitutions emoluments clause, flagrantly violating the Constitutions emoluments clause, which prohibits U.S. officeholders from taking anything of which prohibits U.S. officeholders from taking anything of value from foreign leaders. value from foreign leaders. The conflicts created are so vast, Frosh said, that Americans The conflicts created are so vast, Frosh said, that Americans The story must be told. Subscribe to The Washington Post. cannot say with certainty whether Trumps actions on a cannot say with certainty whether Trumps actions on a given day are taken in the best interest of the country or given day are taken in the best interest of the country or Subscribe that of his companies. that of his companies. Constituents must Constituents must Inside 'Trump Revealed' know that a know that a president who president who orders our sons and orders our sons and daughters into daughters into Read stories based on reporting for Trump Revealed, a broad, comprehensive biography of the life of the 45th president. D.C. Attorney General Karl A. Racine speaks D.C. Attorney General Karl A. Racine speaks Monday during a news conference in the Monday during a news conference in the District in which he and Maryland Attorney District in which he and Maryland Attorney General Brian E. Frosh (D) announced a lawsuit General Brian E. Frosh (D) announced a lawsuit against President Trump. (Michael against President Trump. (Michael Reynolds/European Pressphoto Agency) Reynolds/European Pressphoto Agency) harms way is not harms way is not acting out of acting out of concern for his own concern for his own business, Frosh business, Frosh said. They must said. They must know that we will know that we will Reporting archive: Trumps financial records, depositions and interview transcripts Our Online Games Play right from this page not enter into a treaty with another nation because our not enter into a treaty with another nation because our president owns a golf course there. president owns a golf course there. See the lawsuit filed Monday]] [[See the lawsuit filed Monday In the first months of Trumps presidency, Democratic In the first months of Trumps presidency, Democratic Mahjongg Dimensions Strategy game Mahjongg Candy Strategy game attorneys general have banded together and won lawsuits attorneys general have banded together and won lawsuits   challenging Trumps bans on travelers from majority  challenging Trumps bans on travelers from majority  Muslim nations. They have sought to use courts to protect Muslim nations. They have sought to use courts to protect sanctuary cities, a target of Trumps Justice Department, sanctuary cities, a target of Trumps Justice Department, and filed suits to delay rollbacks of environmental and filed suits to delay rollbacks of environmental regulations sought by Trumps administration. Some have regulations sought by Trumps administration. Some have Word Wipe Word game hired special prosecutors to look into Trumps business hired special prosecutors to look into Trumps business  dealings. dealings. Today's Headlines newsletter The new lawsuit argues that D.C. and Maryland, The new lawsuit argues that D.C. and Maryland, The day's most important stories. specifically, are being harmed because the Trump specifically, are being harmed because the Trump International Hotel near the White House may be drawing International Hotel near the White House may be drawing E mail address Add business away from the taxpayer owned Walter E. business away from the taxpayer owned Walter E. washingtonpost.com https://archive.ph/20170719220216/https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause/2017/0 2/7 2/23/25, 9:46 AM D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   The Washington Post Washington Convention Center in the District and a facility Washington Convention Center in the District and a facility  1996 2017 The Washington Post in Maryland subsidized by taxpayers. in Maryland subsidized by taxpayers. Help and Contact Us The Kuwaiti Embassy held an event at the Trump hotel, the The Kuwaiti Embassy held an event at the Trump hotel, the Terms of Service Privacy Policy lawsuit notes, switching its initial booking from the Four lawsuit notes, switching its initial booking from the Four Print Products Terms of Sale Seasons. A public relations firm hired by Saudi Arabia, Seasons. A public relations firm hired by Saudi Arabia, Digital Products Terms of Sale which Trump visited on his first trip abroad as president, which Trump visited on his first trip abroad as president, Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service also has spent over $270,000 on rooms, meals and parking also has spent over $270,000 on rooms, meals and parking Ad Choices at the presidents D.C. hotel in recent months as the at the presidents D.C. hotel in recent months as the kingdom shuttled U.S. veterans to D.C. to lobby against a kingdom shuttled U.S. veterans to D.C. to lobby against a measure in Congress that could expose the Saudi measure in Congress that could expose the Saudi government to lawsuits. Turkey held a state sponsored government to lawsuits. Turkey held a state sponsored event there last month. And in April, the ambassador of event there last month. And in April, the ambassador of Georgia stayed at the hotel and tweeted his compliments. Georgia stayed at the hotel and tweeted his compliments. Trump has appeared at the hotel and greeted guests Trump has appeared at the hotel and greeted guests repeatedly since becoming president. repeatedly since becoming president. In all, the lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court for the District In all, the lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland names 10 countries it says Trump has profited of Maryland names 10 countries it says Trump has profited from as president. from as president. At the White House, press secretary Sean Spicer dismissed At the White House, press secretary Sean Spicer dismissed the lawsuit, saying its not hard to conclude that partisan the lawsuit, saying its not hard to conclude that partisan politics may be one of the motivations. politics may be one of the motivations. Facing a bank of 20 television cameras, Racine and Frosh Facing a bank of 20 television cameras, Racine and Frosh left little doubt that they were embracing their role in left little doubt that they were embracing their role in pushing back against Trump. pushing back against Trump. The Republican controlled Congress has wholly failed to The Republican controlled Congress has wholly failed to fulfill its responsibility of serving as a check and balance on fulfill its responsibility of serving as a check and balance on the president and has thus given the president a total pass the president and has thus given the president a total pass on his business entanglements, Racine said. on his business entanglements, Racine said. Lawsuits brought under the emoluments clause are Lawsuits brought under the emoluments clause are exceedingly rare, and the lack of precedent left legal experts exceedingly rare, and the lack of precedent left legal experts divided on how the case might end. But many agreed that divided on how the case might end. But many agreed that the suit is more likely than several similar cases brought the suit is more likely than several similar cases brought recently to survive early challenges. recently to survive early challenges. If it does proceed, Racine and Frosh say they will demand If it does proceed, Racine and Frosh say they will demand that Trump turn over his personal tax returns to gauge the that Trump turn over his personal tax returns to gauge the extent of his foreign business dealings. That fight would extent of his foreign business dealings. That fight would most likely end up before the Supreme Court, the two said, most likely end up before the Supreme Court, the two said, https://archive.ph/20170719220216/https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause/2017/0 3/7 2/23/25, 9:46 AM D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   The Washington Post with Trumps attorneys having to defend why the returns with Trumps attorneys having to defend why the returns should remain private. should remain private. Andy Grewal, a law professor at the University of Iowa, has Andy Grewal, a law professor at the University of Iowa, has been openly skeptical that any emolument lawsuit will been openly skeptical that any emolument lawsuit will succeed. But Grewal said he thinks having the District and succeed. But Grewal said he thinks having the District and Maryland as plaintiffs will make federal courts reluctant to Maryland as plaintiffs will make federal courts reluctant to halt the suit before it reaches the phase of discovery that halt the suit before it reaches the phase of discovery that could lead to Trumps tax returns. could lead to Trumps tax returns. What is most likely is to get to the tax returns, Grewal What is most likely is to get to the tax returns, Grewal said. Beyond that, he said, the path forward for D.C. and said. Beyond that, he said, the path forward for D.C. and Maryland is less clear. Maryland is less clear. [Democrats plan resolution to demand Trump divest from [Democrats plan resolution to demand Trump divest from his business] his business] The D.C. based watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility The D.C. based watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) filed a similar lawsuit and Ethics in Washington (CREW) filed a similar lawsuit in in January. In March, a D.C. restaurant sued Trump January. In March, a , alleging D.C. restaurant sued Trump, alleging that his hotel in D.C. benefits from unfair advantages that his hotel in D.C. benefits from unfair advantages because of its close association with the president. And last because of its close association with the president. And last week, a group of Democratic members of Congress said they week, a group of Democratic members of Congress said they . Each complaint, however, has faced plan to file suit soon. Each complaint, however, has faced plan to file suit soon legal hurdles over standing to sue the president. legal hurdles over standing to sue the president. [The official who let Trump keep his government hotel deal [The official who let Trump keep his government hotel deal explains herself] explains herself] In the Trump administrations most detailed response yet, In the Trump administrations most detailed response yet, the Justice Department filed a 70 page legal brief Friday the Justice Department filed a 70 page legal brief Friday arguing the CREW lawsuit should be dismissed. The arguing the CREW lawsuit should be dismissed. The administration said Trumps businesses are legally administration said Trumps businesses are legally permitted to accept payments from foreign governments permitted to accept payments from foreign governments while he is in office. The filing held up the lack of past while he is in office. The filing held up the lack of past complaints  going all the way back to farm produce sold complaints  going all the way back to farm produce sold abroad by George Washington  to assert that market rate abroad by George Washington  to assert that market rate payments for Trumps real estate, hotel and golf companies payments for Trumps real estate, hotel and golf companies do not constitute emoluments as defined by the do not constitute emoluments as defined by the Constitution. Constitution. Norman Eisen, who served as the chief White House ethics Norman Eisen, who served as the chief White House ethics lawyer for President Barack Obama and is CREWs board lawyer for President Barack Obama and is CREWs board chairman, said jurisdictions such as the District and chairman, said jurisdictions such as the District and Maryland are among the most perfect plaintiffs to sue Maryland are among the most perfect plaintiffs to sue https://archive.ph/20170719220216/https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause/2017/0 4/7 2/23/25, 9:46 AM D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   The Washington Post over emoluments because they have a say in making sure over emoluments because they have a say in making sure the Constitution is being enforced. the Constitution is being enforced. Trump is the framers worst case scenario  a president Trump is the framers worst case scenario  a president who would seize office and attempt to exploit his position who would seize office and attempt to exploit his position for personal financial gain with every governmental entity for personal financial gain with every governmental entity imaginable, across the United States or around the world, imaginable, across the United States or around the world, said Eisen, whose nonprofit group is serving as outside said Eisen, whose nonprofit group is serving as outside counsel in the lawsuit brought by the District and Maryland. counsel in the lawsuit brought by the District and Maryland. On the domestic side, the suit alleges Trump has received On the domestic side, the suit alleges Trump has received unconstitutional financial favors from the U.S. government. unconstitutional financial favors from the U.S. government. It says the U.S. General Services Administration, which It says the U.S. General Services Administration, which handles federal real estate, wrongly allowed Trumps handles federal real estate, wrongly allowed Trumps company to continue to lease the Old Post Office building, company to continue to lease the Old Post Office building, where Trump built his D.C. hotel, though a clause in the where Trump built his D.C. hotel, though a clause in the contract said no elected official could remain on the lease. contract said no elected official could remain on the lease. [Despite promise, Trumps business offers little [Despite promise, Trumps business offers little information about foreign profit] [[ information about foreign profit] The lawsuit also alleges that Trump is violating domestic The lawsuit also alleges that Trump is violating domestic emoluments by creating a situation in which states feel emoluments by creating a situation in which states feel compelled to compete for Trumps favor, perhaps by compelled to compete for Trumps favor, perhaps by offering zoning exemptions, waivers or other benefits to offering zoning exemptions, waivers or other benefits to help his businesses. help his businesses. After the Trump Organization initially said it would not After the Trump Organization initially said it would not pursue new deals while he was in office, Trumps sons pursue new deals while he was in office, Trumps sons announced last week that the company would begin announced last week that the company would begin building a network of new hotels in mostly Republican  building a network of new hotels in mostly Republican  leaning states that he won in last years election. leaning states that he won in last years election. Today's Headlines newsletter Today's Headlines newsletter The day's most important stories. The day's most important stories. Sign up The lawsuit by D.C. and Maryland says the two jurisdictions The lawsuit by D.C. and Maryland says the two jurisdictions are faced with an intolerable dilemma  to go along with are faced with an intolerable dilemma  to go along with the Trump Organization getting special treatment, the Trump Organization getting special treatment, including possible lost local revenue, or deny such requests including possible lost local revenue, or deny such requests and be placed at a disadvantage vis  vis states and other and be placed at a disadvantage vis  vis states and other government entities that have granted or will agree to such government entities that have granted or will agree to such concessions. concessions. https://archive.ph/20170719220216/https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause/2017/0 5/7 2/23/25, 9:46 AM D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   The Washington Post Jed Shugerman, a law professor at Fordham University, Jed Shugerman, a law professor at Fordham University, said he believes D.C. and Maryland have a strong argument said he believes D.C. and Maryland have a strong argument to make that the case should proceed and that federal courts to make that the case should proceed and that federal courts should establish a bright line for presidents as to what should establish a bright line for presidents as to what constitutes an emoluments violation. Similar questions constitutes an emoluments violation. Similar questions could have been raised about the Clinton Foundation if could have been raised about the Clinton Foundation if Hillary Clinton had won the White House, he said. Hillary Clinton had won the White House, he said. We need clarity not just for the Trump administration but We need clarity not just for the Trump administration but because there has been too much blurring of the lines of because there has been too much blurring of the lines of what is appropriate and what is not, he said. what is appropriate and what is not, he said. Mondays lawsuit drew criticism from the Republican Mondays lawsuit drew criticism from the Republican National Committee and Republican state attorneys National Committee and Republican state attorneys general. Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge, vice general. Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge, vice chair of the Republican Attorneys General Association, chair of the Republican Attorneys General Association, called the lawsuit grandstanding for political purposes. . . . called the lawsuit grandstanding for political purposes. . . . Quite frankly, it is an unfortunate display of partisan Quite frankly, it is an unfortunate display of partisan politics by my colleagues across the aisle. politics by my colleagues across the aisle. But Sean Rankin, executive director of the Democratic But Sean Rankin, executive director of the Democratic Attorneys General Association, cast Mondays suit as a Attorneys General Association, cast Mondays suit as a break from the group playing defense. To date, Democratic break from the group playing defense. To date, Democratic attorneys general have been responding to Trumps attorneys general have been responding to Trumps actions, he said. Today, Democratic attorneys general actions, he said. Today, Democratic attorneys general moved to offense. moved to offense.  2.4k Comments    Aaron Davis is a reporter for The Posts Investigative team.  Follow @byaaroncdavis Karen Tumulty is a national political correspondent for The Washington Post.  Follow @ktumulty https://archive.ph/20170719220216/https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause/2017/0 6/7 2/23/25, 9:46 AM D.C. and Maryland AGs: Trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause   The Washington Post https://archive.ph/20170719220216/https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/dc and marylands lawsuit trump flagrantly violating emoluments clause/2017/0 7/7