2/23/25, 10:30 AM Former MI6 chief Richard Dearlove says Donald Trump borrowed money from Russia during 2008 financial crisis Former MI6 chief Richard Dearlove says Donald Trump borrowed money from Russia during 2008 financial crisis Days before taking office, Mr Trump said Russia had never had any 'levarage' over him Former head of MI6 Richard Dearlove said Donald Trump borrowed money from Russia during the 2008 financial crisis (PA) Your support helps us to tell the story Support Now From reproductive rights to climate change to Big Tech, The Independent is on the ground when the story is developing. Whether it's investigating the financials of Elon Musk's pro Trump PAC or producing our latest documentary, 'The A Word', which shines a light on the American women fighting for reproductive rights, we know how important it is to parse out the facts from the messaging. At such a critical moment in US history, we need reporters on the ground. Your donation allows us to keep sending journalists to speak to both sides of the story. read://https_www.independent.co.uk/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.independent.co.uk%2Fnews%2Fworld%2Famericas%2Fus politics%2Frichard dearlove mi6 tru 1/3 2/23/25, 10:30 AM Former MI6 chief Richard Dearlove says Donald Trump borrowed money from Russia during 2008 financial crisis The Independent is trusted by Americans across the entire political spectrum. And unlike many other quality news outlets, we choose not to lock Americans out of our reporting and analysis with paywalls. We believe quality journalism should be available to everyone, paid for by those who can afford it. Your support makes all the difference. The former head of MI6 has said Donald Trump borrowed money from Russia for his business during the 2008 financial crisis. Richard Dearlove told Prospect Magazine that what lingers for Trump may be what deals   on what terms   he did after the financial crisis of 2008 to borrow Russian money when other banks and lenders would not risk the money, given Mr Trumps history of bankruptcy. Mr Dearlove alleged the money was used by Mr Trump to prop up his real estate empire, which was hit hard by the financial crisis. It is not illegal to borrow money from Russian entities but Mr Dearlove, who left government in 2004, did not provide any evidence to support his claim in the interview. Rex Tillerson: US have "low level of trust" with Russia Just days before taking office Mr Trump tweeted that Russia has never had leverage over him. Mr Trump also recently said US Russia relations may be at an all time low following the US air strike in Russian allied Syria after a chemical attack in the Idlib province. Robert Amsterdam, a lawyer at international law firm Amsterdam & Partners with considerable experience in Russian affairs, told The Independent there was no question that US intelligence agencies and the FBI had information about Trumps financial dealings with Russian entities prior to the 2016 US election. Trumps relationship with Russia goes back many, many years. Im sure the FBI was monitoring it, he said. Two parallel investigations into alleged ties between Trump associates and Russia during the 2016 presidential election as well as Russias alleged tampering with the election are being conducted in Congress at the moment. Democrat Senator Mark Warner, Vice Chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee said the tactics used by the Kremlin send a chill down anyone who believes in the democratic process. If the FBI and or other US intelligence agencies did know about any financial burden Mr Trump had with Russian lenders, it will raise further questions over why the information was not released earlier, especially given the FBI's approach to Mr Trump's opposition candidate Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election. FBI Director James Comey infamously sent a letter on 28 October   just 11 days before Americans went to the polls   to Congress stating the agency found new, pertinent emails in its ongoing investigation into then candidate Ms Clintons use of a private email server for messages containing classified information. Mr Amsterdam said one possible explanation is that the FBI has an informer who was once part of the Trump organisation and that information was not released in order to protect that source. In my view[the FBI] had no obligation to share the Trump investigation but the same rules should apply to Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, he said. read://https_www.independent.co.uk/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.independent.co.uk%2Fnews%2Fworld%2Famericas%2Fus politics%2Frichard dearlove mi6 tru 2/3 2/23/25, 10:30 AM Former MI6 chief Richard Dearlove says Donald Trump borrowed money from Russia during 2008 financial crisis Mr Amsterdam explained that Russian authorities likely have the same, if not better, information about Mr Trumps financial dealings with Russian entities. One of Mr Trumps main lenders is a bank thats been particularly close with Russians: Deutsche Bank, said Mr Amsterdam. It is unknown if Mr Trump is still paying off the alleged 2008 debts to Russian lenders or which part of the vast Trump organisation took out the loans. The Congressional investigations will also include interviews and possibly hearings with Mr Trumps son in law Jared Kushner. It has been confirmed that Vnesheconombank, a Russian state development bank, met with Mr Kushner in December 2016. The bank is currently subject to western economic sanctions due to Russia's incursion into Ukraine. read://https_www.independent.co.uk/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.independent.co.uk%2Fnews%2Fworld%2Famericas%2Fus politics%2Frichard dearlove mi6 tru 3/3