2/23/25, 9:40 AM Sergey Kislyak, the ambassador at the center of the Trump Russia scandals, is going home Sergey Kislyak, the ambassador at the center of the Trump Russia scandals, is going home Thats bad news for US Russian relations. read://https_www.vox.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.vox.com%2Fworld%2F2017%2F6%2F27%2F15875434%2Fsergey kislyak trump russia return moscow 1/4 2/23/25, 9:40 AM Sergey Kislyak, the ambassador at the center of the Trump Russia scandals, is going home When it comes to Donald Trumps Russia scandals, one man has been squarely at the center of them all: Russian Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak. Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn was forced out after lying about his communications with Kislyak in December. Attorney General Jeff Sessions was forced to recuse himself from the Russia investigation after it became clear that he had not disclosed his own meetings with the ambassador during his confirmation hearings. When Jared Kushner wanted to set up a secret line of communication with the Kremlin, Kislyak was the person he turned to (theres no evidence the idea ever went anywhere). And now, with the investigation into Trumps Russia ties heating up, Kislyak is leaving Washington  both BuzzFeed and NBC News have confirmed that the ambassador, a nuclear physicist by training, will be returning to Moscow in the coming months. While the reports suggest his departure had been in the works for several months, its hard to imagine the mounting scandal didnt play a role in the situation. Kislyak had become such a lightning rod for criticism  Newsweek termed him the most radioactive man in Washington  that it became hard for him to work effectively with the Trump administration. People were now scared out of meeting with Kislyak because theyre worried someone is going to make some [controversy] that they really shouldnt, Mark Galeotti, a Russia expert at the Institute of International Relations Prague, told me. He could not do his job. This shows a way in which the Russia scandal is impacting US Russian relations  but not how the Kremlin wanted. Now the taint of scandal has been attached to his name  a perception in Washington that taking a private meeting with Kislyak could end up coming back to haunt you read://https_www.vox.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.vox.com%2Fworld%2F2017%2F6%2F27%2F15875434%2Fsergey kislyak trump russia return moscow 2/4 2/23/25, 9:40 AM Sergey Kislyak, the ambassador at the center of the Trump Russia scandals, is going home The goal of Russias hack of the election was to sow chaos in the US political system and maybe even help elect Trump president. Check and check. But it also appears to have helped marginalize Kislyak, one of Moscows most effective and respected advocates in Washington. The Trump administrations refusal to come clean about the nature of its ties with Russia, its continual lying about the extent of those contacts, and the ongoing FBI and congressional investigations all mean that anyone caught up in the swirling Russia scandals will have a hard time doing their job as normal. That makes it much tougher for Kislyak to get the policy changes from the Trump administration Putin wants, on both smaller things like returning diplomatic compounds the Obama administration seized as punishment for its election hacking and major issues like lifting debilitating US sanctions and recognizing its annexation of Crimea. So Kislyaks departure became necessary  cutting off a potentially useful conduit of information between the two sides in the midst of a series of growing points of conflict, most notably an increasing risk of actual shots being fired between US and Russian forces in Syria. Russias gambit appears to have actually cost the country a key point of contact with the Trump administration  exactly the kind of person who could effectively advocate for Moscows interests in Washington and play a constructive role in a crisis. Kislyak [has had] a steadying influence, Galeotti says. These are precisely the kind of volatile times when you need a seasoned, steady hand at the embassy. Kislyaks diminished status shows how US Russia relations have gone off the rails Theres no public evidence that Kislyak was actually involved in Russias hack of the US election  or any other kind of wrongdoing, for that matter. The best evidence that Kislyak is involved is the fact that his name just keeps coming up in the various investigations. But you dont need to posit some kind of John Le Carr conspiracy theory, where Kislyak is the puppet master pulling the strings of a vast White House Kremlin plot, to explain why. Kislyak is the highest ranking Russian official in Washington, making him the natural point of contact for people like Flynn, Sessions, and Kushner. They made the choice to meet with him and lie about it (in the case of Flynn and Sessions) or propose something inappropriate (in the case of Kushner). Kislyak did nothing wrong by choosing to sit down with them. His job is to make as many contacts as possible, as well as advocate for the policies of his government. He always did both very effectively, Michael McFaul, former US ambassador to Russia and an outspoken critic of Putins government, said in an interview with Newsweek. On political involvement, I personally dont think he crossed any lines. The general consensus among the Russia watching community, in fact, is that Kislyak is a skilled and reasonably levelheaded professional diplomat. Putins inner circle has plenty of ideologues and anti  American hardliners; Kislyak was seen as a high ranking counterpoint, a pragmatist who was sincerely interested in building a working relationship with his American counterparts. Generally a very capable guy, very professional and by the book, Matthew Rojansky, director of the Kennan Institute at the Woodrow Wilson Center, told my colleague Zeeshan Aleem. His removal from Washington is, instead, a function of the fact that he was simply in the wrong position (Russian ambassador to the US) at the wrong time (the early Trump administration). Now the read://https_www.vox.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.vox.com%2Fworld%2F2017%2F6%2F27%2F15875434%2Fsergey kislyak trump russia return moscow 3/4 2/23/25, 9:40 AM Sergey Kislyak, the ambassador at the center of the Trump Russia scandals, is going home taint of scandal has been attached to his name  a perception in Washington that taking a private meeting with Kislyak could end up coming back to haunt you. If it could cost Flynn his job and force Sessions to recuse himself from a vital investigation, what could it do to you? So Kislyak had to go, regardless of his qualifications for his actual job. And this isnt good news for anyone, Russians or Americans. During the campaign, Trump promised to revamp US Russian relations, to improve tensions created by Russias invasion of Ukraine and intervention in the Syrian civil war on behalf of dictator Bashar al  Assad. In reality, the opposite has happened. Trumps Pentagon deployed 900 new troops to Poland as part of an explicitly anti Russian NATO task force in April; his State Department slapped new sanctions on companies and individuals with links to the Ukraine invasion last week. The tensions are even more acutely felt in Syria, where the US seems to be intentionally targeting Assads forces. My colleague Alex Ward explains: This past Sunday, the US shot down a Syrian warplane, the first time America had done that during Syrias civil war. That angered the Russians  allies of the Syrian government  to the point that its Ministry of Defense threatened to target US or allied aircraft flying over Syria west of the Euphrates River. The US ignored Moscows harsh words and shot down a Syrian drone Tuesday, something certain not to go unnoticed in the Kremlin. Its unclear how much of this is intentional  Trump going back on his promises to cozy up to Moscow  and how much of it is the result of Trump devolving policy responsibilities to the military and top level officials like Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis (a noted Russia skeptic). Either way, though, its created a situation where effective US Russia communication is essential in order to avoid sending the wrong signal. Imagine, for example, a US jet shoots down a Russian helicopter supporting Assads troops in Syria  an increasingly plausible scenario as tensions in Syria grow. In a crisis like that, you need cool heads who are trusted in both capitals to prevent the situation from escalating. Im having trouble thinking of someone who could be as good in that role as Kislyak, Galeotti says. The person who was meant to be the kind of ultimate expert on how to understand America is now gone. And whoever comes in, even if theyre exceedingly able, theyre going to be to an extent rebuilding their connections, their networks, their understandings from scratch. Kislyaks departure, in short, makes miscommunications between the White House and the Kremlin more likely. And thats not good news for anyone. See More: Politics World Politics read://https_www.vox.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.vox.com%2Fworld%2F2017%2F6%2F27%2F15875434%2Fsergey kislyak trump russia return moscow 4/4