2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post archive.today webpage capture Saved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration no other snapshots from this url Redirected from https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration history prior next search 29 Mar 2017 06:56:05 UTC All snapshots from host www.washingtonpost.com Linked from en.wikipedia.org  Sally Yates es.wikipedia.org  Sally Yates Webpage Screenshot share download .zip report bug or abuse  Sections  Sign In Subscribe Democracy Dies in Darkness       National Security Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia     7.9k Trump administration tried to block Sally Yates's Trump administration tried to block Sally Yates's congressional testimony congressional testimony   Most Read 1 Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia  Play Video 2:29 2 Panic spreads in Iraq, Syria as record numbers of civilians are reported killed in U.S. strikes The Trump administration sought to stop former acting attorney general The Trump administration sought to stop former acting attorney general Sally Yates from testifying before the House Intelligence Committee about Sally Yates from testifying before the House Intelligence Committee about (Video: Jenny links between the Trump campaign and Russian officials. (Video: Jenny links between the Trump campaign and Russian officials. Starrs/Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post) Starrs/Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post) 3 Under pressure, Jim Webb declines to be recognized as a distinguished Naval Academy graduate March 28 at 7:28 PM  By By Devlin Barrett Devlin Barrett and and Adam Entous Adam Entous March 28 at 7:28 PM The Trump administration sought to block former acting The Trump administration sought to block former acting 4 Asia analyst forced to withdraw from position heading Pentagon  funded think tank for earlier Trump criticism attorney general Sally Yates from testifying in the House attorney general Sally Yates from testifying in the House investigation of possible links between Russian officials and investigation of possible links between Russian officials and Donald Trumps campaign, according to letters provided to Donald Trumps campaign, according to letters provided to 5 Scottish Parliament passes motion in favor of referendum on independence The Washington Post. The effort to keep Yates from The Washington Post. The effort to keep Yates from testifying has further angered Democrats, who have accused testifying has further angered Democrats, who have accused Republicans of trying to damage the inquiry. Republicans of trying to damage the inquiry. Our Online Games Play right from this page https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 1/8 2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post According to the letters, the Justice Department notified According to the letters, the Justice Department notified Yates earlier this month that the administration considers Yates earlier this month that the administration considers her possible testimony  including on the ouster of former her possible testimony  including on the ouster of former national security adviser Michael Flynn for his contacts national security adviser Michael Flynn for his contacts Mahjongg Dimensions Strategy game Spider Solitaire Card game with the Russian ambassador  to be off limits in a with the Russian ambassador  to be off limits in a   congressional hearing because the topics are covered by congressional hearing because the topics are covered by attorney client privilege or the presidential communication attorney client privilege or the presidential communication privilege. privilege. Read the letters on Sally Yates testifying before Congress]] [[Read the letters on Sally Yates testifying before Congress Mahjongg Candy Strategy game Word Wipe Word game The issue of Yatess testimony adds to the political The issue of Yatess testimony adds to the political   controversy surrounding the House Intelligence controversy surrounding the House Intelligence Committees investigation of Russian meddling in last years Committees investigation of Russian meddling in last years Checkpoint newsletter election and any possible coordination between Trump election and any possible coordination between Trump Military, defense and security at home and abroad. associates and Moscow. associates and Moscow. E mail address Add David ONeil, an attorney for Yates, met at the Justice David ONeil, an attorney for Yates, met at the Justice Department to discuss the issue with government officials Department to discuss the issue with government officials on Thursday. At the meeting, ONeil presented a letter in on Thursday. At the meeting, ONeil presented a letter in washingtonpost.com which he said the Justice Department had advised him which he said the Justice Department had advised him  1996 2017 The Washington Post that Yatess official communications on issues of interest to that Yatess official communications on issues of interest to Help and Contact Us the House panel are client confidences that cannot be the House panel are client confidences that cannot be Terms of Service disclosed without written consent. ONeil challenged that disclosed without written consent. ONeil challenged that Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale interpretation as overbroad in the letter. interpretation as overbroad in the letter. Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy Spicer says Post report on Yates is false Spicer says Post report on Yates is false   RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices  Play Video 1:57 White House press secretary Sean Spicer on March 28 disputed a White House press secretary Sean Spicer on March 28 disputed a Washington Post report about efforts by the Trump administration to Washington Post report about efforts by the Trump administration to prevent former acting attorney general Sally Yates from testifying before prevent former acting attorney general Sally Yates from testifying before (Reuters) Congress. (Reuters) Congress. The following day, in a letter to ONeil, the Justice The following day, in a letter to ONeil, the Justice Department responded with another objection: that Yatess Department responded with another objection: that Yatess communications with the White House are probably communications with the White House are probably covered by presidential communications privilege, and covered by presidential communications privilege, and referred him to the White House. referred him to the White House. https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 2/8 2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment. A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment. ONeil then wrote to White House Counsel Donald McGahn, ONeil then wrote to White House Counsel Donald McGahn, saying that he believed any privilege had been waived as a saying that he believed any privilege had been waived as a result of past White House statements and that Yates result of past White House statements and that Yates planned to testify unless he heard back from McGahn. planned to testify unless he heard back from McGahn. But that same day, the hearing, which also would have But that same day, the hearing, which also would have included former CIA director John Brennan and former included former CIA director John Brennan and former director of national intelligence James R. Clapper Jr., was director of national intelligence James R. Clapper Jr., was canceled by the House Intelligence Committees chairman, canceled by the House Intelligence Committees chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes (R Calif.), and any White House decision Rep. Devin Nunes (R Calif.), and any White House decision on Yatess testimony became moot. on Yatess testimony became moot. In his Tuesday briefing, press secretary Sean Spicer said In his Tuesday briefing, press secretary Sean Spicer said that the White House did not weigh in on whether Yates that the White House did not weigh in on whether Yates could testify. To suggest in any way, shape or form that we could testify. To suggest in any way, shape or form that we stood in the way of that is 100 percent false, he said. stood in the way of that is 100 percent false, he said. Nunes has said he canceled the hearing to first hear from Nunes has said he canceled the hearing to first hear from FBI Director James B. Comey in a classified setting. That FBI Director James B. Comey in a classified setting. That session was also canceled. session was also canceled. Democrats charge that Nunes has aligned himself too Democrats charge that Nunes has aligned himself too closely with the White House to conduct an independent closely with the White House to conduct an independent probe. probe. You see the You see the unraveling of this unraveling of this committee committee happening happening overnight for no overnight for no good reason, said good reason, said Then Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates at the Then Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates at the Justice Department on May 15, 2015. (Evelyn Justice Department on May 15, 2015. (Evelyn Hockstein/For The Washington Post) Hockstein/For The Washington Post) Rep. Jackie Speier Rep. Jackie Speier (D Calif.), a (D Calif.), a committee committee member. We have a responsibility to do this investigation. member. We have a responsibility to do this investigation. ONeils meeting at the Justice Department and the ONeils meeting at the Justice Department and the exchange of letters came to light as the House GOP exchange of letters came to light as the House GOP leadership continued to stand by Nunes. House Speaker leadership continued to stand by Nunes. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R Wis.) rejected demands that Nunes recuse Paul D. Ryan (R Wis.) rejected demands that Nunes recuse himself. Nunes said Tuesday that he had no plans to step himself. Nunes said Tuesday that he had no plans to step aside. aside. https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 3/8 2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post Yates was the deputy attorney general in the final years of Yates was the deputy attorney general in the final years of the Obama administration and served as the acting attorney the Obama administration and served as the acting attorney general in the first days of the Trump administration. general in the first days of the Trump administration. after she ordered Justice Trump fired Yates in January after she ordered Justice Trump fired Yates in January Department lawyers not to defend his first immigration Department lawyers not to defend his first immigration order temporarily banning entry to the United States for order temporarily banning entry to the United States for citizens of seven Muslim majority countries and refugees citizens of seven Muslim majority countries and refugees from around the world. from around the world. As acting attorney general, Yates played a key part in the As acting attorney general, Yates played a key part in the investigation surrounding Flynn, who was ousted after investigation surrounding Flynn, who was ousted after revelations that he had discussed sanctions with the revelations that he had discussed sanctions with the Russian ambassador to the United States. Russian ambassador to the United States. Yates and Brennan had made clear to government officials Yates and Brennan had made clear to government officials by Thursday that their testimony to the committee would by Thursday that their testimony to the committee would probably contradict some statements that White House probably contradict some statements that White House officials had made, according to a person familiar with the officials had made, according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ONeil and Ken Wainstein, a lawyer for Brennan, declined ONeil and Ken Wainstein, a lawyer for Brennan, declined to comment. to comment. During his press briefing Tuesday, Spicer said of Yates: I During his press briefing Tuesday, Spicer said of Yates: I hope she testifies. I look forward to it. hope she testifies. I look forward to it. Spicer said the White House did not seek to have the House Spicer said the White House did not seek to have the House hearing canceled. hearing canceled. Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the Intelligence Committee, said the panel was aware that Yates Intelligence Committee, said the panel was aware that Yates sought permission to testify from the White House. sought permission to testify from the White House. Whether the White Houses desire to avoid a public claim of Whether the White Houses desire to avoid a public claim of executive privilege to keep her from providing the full truth executive privilege to keep her from providing the full truth on what happened contributed to the decision to cancel on what happened contributed to the decision to cancel todays hearing, we do not know. But we would urge that todays hearing, we do not know. But we would urge that the open hearing be rescheduled without delay and that Ms. the open hearing be rescheduled without delay and that Ms. Yates be permitted to testify freely and openly. Yates be permitted to testify freely and openly. Chairman and partisan: The dual roles of Devin Nunes [[Chairman and partisan: The dual roles of Devin Nunes raise questions about House investigation]] raise questions about House investigation In January, Yates warned McGahn that statements White In January, Yates warned McGahn that statements White House officials, including Vice President Pence, had made House officials, including Vice President Pence, had made https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 4/8 2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post about Flynns contact with the ambassador were incorrect about Flynns contact with the ambassador were incorrect and could therefore expose the national security adviser to and could therefore expose the national security adviser to future blackmail by the Russians. future blackmail by the Russians. In his March 23 letter  addressed to acting assistant In his March 23 letter  addressed to acting assistant attorney general Samuel Ramer  ONeil noted that Yates attorney general Samuel Ramer  ONeil noted that Yates was willing to testify and that she would avoid discussing was willing to testify and that she would avoid discussing classified information and details that could compromise classified information and details that could compromise investigations. The correspondence was later shared with investigations. The correspondence was later shared with the House Intelligence Committee. the House Intelligence Committee. ONeil went on to memorialize the governments position: ONeil went on to memorialize the governments position: The Department of Justice has advised that it believes The Department of Justice has advised that it believes there are further constraints on the testimony Ms. Yates there are further constraints on the testimony Ms. Yates may provide at the [House Intelligence Committee] hearing. may provide at the [House Intelligence Committee] hearing. Generally, we understand that the department takes the Generally, we understand that the department takes the position that all information Ms. Yates received or actions position that all information Ms. Yates received or actions she took in her capacity as Deputy Attorney General and she took in her capacity as Deputy Attorney General and acting Attorney General are client confidences that she may acting Attorney General are client confidences that she may not disclose absent written consent of the department, he not disclose absent written consent of the department, he wrote. wrote. ONeil continued: We believe that the departments ONeil continued: We believe that the departments position in this regard is overbroad, incorrect, and position in this regard is overbroad, incorrect, and inconsistent with the departments historical approach to inconsistent with the departments historical approach to the congressional testimony of current and former officials. the congressional testimony of current and former officials. In particular, we believe that Ms. Yates should not be In particular, we believe that Ms. Yates should not be obligated to refuse to provide nonclassified facts about the obligated to refuse to provide nonclassified facts about the departments notification to the White House of concerns departments notification to the White House of concerns about the conduct of a senior official. Requiring Ms. Yates about the conduct of a senior official. Requiring Ms. Yates to refuse to provide such information is particularly to refuse to provide such information is particularly untenable given that multiple senior administration officials untenable given that multiple senior administration officials have publicly described the same events. have publicly described the same events. The following day, Scott Schools, a senior Justice The following day, Scott Schools, a senior Justice Department lawyer, replied to ONeil, writing that Yatess Department lawyer, replied to ONeil, writing that Yatess conversations with the White House are likely covered by conversations with the White House are likely covered by the presidential communications privilege and possibly the the presidential communications privilege and possibly the deliberative process privilege. The president owns those deliberative process privilege. The president owns those privileges. Therefore, to the extent Ms. Yates needs consent privileges. Therefore, to the extent Ms. Yates needs consent to disclose the details of those communications to [the to disclose the details of those communications to [the https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 5/8 2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post intelligence panel], she needs to consult with the White intelligence panel], she needs to consult with the White House. She need not obtain separate consent from the House. She need not obtain separate consent from the department. department. That letter, in essence, marked Justice Department officials That letter, in essence, marked Justice Department officials backing away from their earlier strictures, saying that backing away from their earlier strictures, saying that although they thought executive privilege probably applied although they thought executive privilege probably applied to Yatess discussions, that was a conversation she would to Yatess discussions, that was a conversation she would have to have with lawyers at the White House. have to have with lawyers at the White House. Checkpoint newsletter Checkpoint newsletter Military, defense and security at home and Military, defense and security at home and abroad. abroad. Sign up In response, ONeil sent a letter Friday to McGahn, the In response, ONeil sent a letter Friday to McGahn, the White House counsel, saying that any claim of privilege has White House counsel, saying that any claim of privilege has been waived as a result of the multiple public comments of been waived as a result of the multiple public comments of current senior White House officials describing the January current senior White House officials describing the January 2017 communications. Nevertheless, I am advising the 2017 communications. Nevertheless, I am advising the White House of Ms. Yates intention to provide White House of Ms. Yates intention to provide information. information. He closed the letter by saying that if he did not hear back He closed the letter by saying that if he did not hear back from the White House by 10 a.m. Monday, he would assume from the White House by 10 a.m. Monday, he would assume that it does not exert executive privilege over these matters that it does not exert executive privilege over these matters with respect to the hearings or other settings. with respect to the hearings or other settings. The cancellation of the hearing made ONeils deadline The cancellation of the hearing made ONeils deadline moot, although Spicer said the lack of a response to the moot, although Spicer said the lack of a response to the lawyers letter showed the administration had no problem lawyers letter showed the administration had no problem with Yates testifying. with Yates testifying. Karoun Demirjian contributed to this report. Karoun Demirjian contributed to this report. Read more: Read more: The web of relationships between Team Trump and Russia The web of relationships between Team Trump and Russia Who is Sally Yates? Meet the acting attorney general Trump Who is Sally Yates? Meet the acting attorney general Trump fired for betraying the Justice Department. fired for betraying the Justice Department. Russia is the slow burn of the Trump administration, and Russia is the slow burn of the Trump administration, and its not going away its not going away  7.9k Comments    https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 6/8 2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post Devlin Barrett writes about national security, homeland security and counterterrorism for The Post. He joined the newspaper in 2017 after 15 years with The Wall Street Journal and the AP. His first newspaper job was as a copy boy at the New York Post, and has covered law enforcement   from local cops to global manhunts   for more than 20 years.  Follow @https://twitter.com/DevlinBarrett Adam Entous writes about national security, foreign policy and intelligence for The Post. He joined the newspaper in 2016 after more than 20 years with The Wall Street Journal and Reuters, where he covered the Pentagon, the CIA, the White House and Congress. He covered President George W. Bush for five years after the September 11, 2001, attacks. Share news tips with us confidentially Do you have information the public should know? Here are some ways you can securely send information and documents to Post journalists. Learn more  https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 7/8 2/23/25, 10:17 AM Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia   The Washington Post https://archive.ph/20170329065605/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration sought to block sally yates from testifying to co 8/8