2/23/25, 2:32 PM Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani | Reuters Learn more about My News Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani By Reuters December 19, 2018 3:47 PM PST  Updated 6 years ago FILE PHOTO: Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani speaks at the 2018 Iran Freedom Convention in Washington, U.S., May 5, 2018. REUTERS/Joshua Roberts/File Photo Purchase Licensing Rights WASHINGTON (Reuters)   U.S. President Donald Trump's lawyer on Wednesday said Trump had signed an October 2015 letter of intent to develop a real estate project in Russia during his presidential campaign, after earlier denying it in a weekend television interview. Rudy Giuliani had told CNN on Sunday that "no one signed" the letter of intent to go forward with the Moscow project, although he acknowledged talks about the development had extended through November 2016 when Trump won the U.S. presidential election. Giuliani reversed course in comments to Reuters on Wednesday, however, after CNN reported late on Tuesday that it had obtained a copy of the Oct. 28, 2015 letter signed by Trump, who had announced his White House bid in June that year. "If I said it, I made a mistake," Giuliani said of his previous denial about Trump having signed the letter. "There's nothing wrong with his signing it. When he did it, he wasn't president yet." The letter was also signed by Andrey Rozov, who owns Russia based I.C. Expert Investment Co, CNN said. The White House did not respond to a request for comment. https://www.reuters.com/article/world/trump signed off on moscow project during campaign giuliani idUSKCN1OI29Q/ 1/7 2/23/25, 2:32 PM Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani | Reuters The proposed project has become a focus in federal investigations into Russian interference in American politics and potential ties between Trump's campaign and Moscow being conducted by the U.S. Special Counsel's Office and Congress. Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen was sentenced last week to three years in prison in part for lying to U.S. lawmakers about the planned Moscow development. Any plans to work with Moscow could be seen as a conflict of interest for someone seeking to represent the United States. Trump, a real estate developer and former reality television star, still owns the Trump Organization but said he would step away from day to day management after taking office. Trump did not publicly disclose the project during his campaign, saying he had nothing to do with Russia and calling for warmer ties with America's old Cold War foe. Last month, Trump told reporters at the White House he pursued the Moscow project during his campaign but decided not to follow through with it. "There would have been nothing wrong if I did do it," he added. Asked about U.S. prosecutors' assertions that his associates met or had business dealings with Russians before the election, Trump told Reuters this month: "The stuff you're talking about is peanut stuff." The planned real estate project included condominiums, a hotel and commercial property, CNN reported. The Trump Organization had also floated the possibility of offering a $50 million penthouse suite to Russian President Vladimir Putin, according to a recent report by Buzzfeed, which reported in May that Trump had signed the letter. Trump has denied any collusion and raised doubts about U.S. intelligence findings that concluded Russia sought to interfere in the 2016 election. Russia has also denied any meddling. Additional reporiting by Karen Freifeld; Writing by Susan Heavey; Editing by Tom Brown Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Suggested Topics: World Purchase Licensing Rights Read Next Europe Germany's conservatives win election but hard coalition talks loom ago Europe Ukraine hemmed in as US backing frays three years after Russian invasion ago United States Trump gets middling grades on Americans' top issues, Reuters/Ipsos poll finds 6:14 PM UTC Europe Pope Francis remains critical and has 'slight' kidney issue, Vatican says 7:15 PM UTC https://www.reuters.com/article/world/trump signed off on moscow project during campaign giuliani idUSKCN1OI29Q/ 2/7 2/23/25, 2:32 PM Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani | Reuters World Ukraine hemmed in as US backing frays three years after Russian invasion Europe  February 23, 2025  2:14 PM PST  17 min ago Ukraine enters the fourth year of all out war with Russia on Monday, unsure it can rely any longer on its staunchest ally the United States as its exhausted troops fight to hold their ground against unrelenting enemy advances. World International reaction to German election 34 min ago Middle East Hamas says talks with Israel contingent on release of prisoners as agreed 35 min ago Europe German election: Conservatives win but refuse coalition talks with far right AfD https://www.reuters.com/article/world/trump signed off on moscow project during campaign giuliani idUSKCN1OI29Q/ 3/7 2/23/25, 2:32 PM Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani | Reuters 25 min ago Europe Germany's conservatives win election but hard coalition talks loom an hour ago Latest Browse Home World Authors Business Topic Sitemap Markets Archive Sustainability Article Sitemap Legal Breakingviews Media Technology Videos Investigations Pictures Sports Graphics Science Podcasts Lifestyle About Reuters About Reuters Advertise with Us Careers Reuters News Agency Brand Attribution Guidelines Reuters and AI Reuters Leadership Reuters Fact Check Reuters Diversity Report Stay Informed Download the App (iOS) Download the App (Android) Newsletters Information you can trust Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the worlds largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers. Follow Us https://www.reuters.com/article/world/trump signed off on moscow project during campaign giuliani idUSKCN1OI29Q/ 4/7 2/23/25, 2:32 PM Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani | Reuters Thomson Reuters Products Westlaw Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney editor expertise, and industry defining technology. ONESOURCE The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever expanding tax and compliance needs. Checkpoint The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals. LSEG Products Workspace Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile. DataCatalogue Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real time and historical market data and insights from worldwide sources and experts. World Check Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks. Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines Purchase Licensing Rights All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information and Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Terms of Use Privacy Digital Accessibility Corrections Site Feedback  2025 Reuters. All rights reserved https://www.reuters.com/article/world/trump signed off on moscow project during campaign giuliani idUSKCN1OI29Q/ 5/7 2/23/25, 2:32 PM Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani | Reuters https://www.reuters.com/article/world/trump signed off on moscow project during campaign giuliani idUSKCN1OI29Q/ 6/7 2/23/25, 2:32 PM Trump signed off on Moscow project during campaign   Giuliani | Reuters https://www.reuters.com/article/world/trump signed off on moscow project during campaign giuliani idUSKCN1OI29Q/ 7/7