2/23/25, 9:45 AM Trump&#x27;s Been Talking About His Business Interests in Russia for 30 Years   The Atlantic Sign In BUSINESS Trumps Been Talking About His Business Interests in Russia for 30 Years e presidents enlisting a leading law firm to insist he has no connections to the countrysomething he could prove if he just released his tax returns. By Jeremy Venook President Donald Trump with Gabriela Isler, the winner of the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow in 2013. (Steve Marcus / Reuters) MAY 10, 2017 SHARE https://12ft.io/proxy Subscribe SAVE 1/6 2/23/25, 9:45 AM Trump&#x27;s Been Talking About His Business Interests in Russia for 30 Years   The Atlantic President Donald Trump would like to move on from the investigation into his campaigns ties to Russia. ats not speculation, or imputing a motive onto Trump actions; its the White Houses official line. In yesterdays daily briefing, Press Secretary Sean Spicer said so, noting that Trump has charged a leading law firm in Washington, D.C.he didnt specify which oneto send a certified letter to Senator Lindsey Graham, one of the few Republicans in Congress to publicly express interest in Trumps business dealings, to that point that he has no connections to Russia. (e news that hed enlisted a law firm was soon swamped by news of the presidents decision to fire FBI Director James Comeya decision that itself prompted speculation that Trump is trying to quash the inquiry into his campaigns interactions with Russian officials.) Trumps desire to move on from the Russia investigation, which has plagued his administration in its early days, is understandable. Unfortunately for the president, one big obstacle to doing so will likely be his own words: He has spent decades pursuingand publicly discussingbusiness ties in Russia, meaning that his claims to currently have no connections to the country strain credulity. Trumps references to Russia go back at least as far as his 1987 book e Art of the Deal, in which he wrote that he was in talks with the Soviet ambassador Yuri Dubinin about building a large luxury hotel across the street from the Kremlin in partnership with the Soviet government. He attempted, ultimately unsuccessfully, to seal the deal https://12ft.io/proxy 2/6 2/23/25, 9:45 AM Trump&#x27;s Been Talking About His Business Interests in Russia for 30 Years   The Atlantic with a visit to Moscow, during which, according to e Washington Post, Trump met with a lot of economic and financial advisers in the Politburo, the Soviet Unions chief political body. e next year, the real estate mogul personally hosted the Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev at Trump Tower in New York. According to e New York Times, Trump attempted to rekindle his Russian connections during one of his brushes with bankruptcy in 1996, saying he had never been as impressed with the potential of a city as I have been with Moscow. Once again, the proposed development, this time an underground shopping mall near the Kremlin, fell through. In the process, though,Trump developed a partnership with a development company called the Bayrock Group, which was founded by a former Soviet official and a Russian American businessman who has since been implicated in a stock manipulation and money laundering scheme involving members of the Russian mob. Over the next decade, CNN has reported, Trump contracted with the Russian law firm Sojuzpatent to file at least eight trademarks in the country. Also during the late 1990s, USA Today notes, dozens of condominiums in Trump World Tower in midtown Manhattan were bought by Russians who sought an audience with Trump, whose business acumen they respected. roughout the 2000s, the Trump Organization continued to pursue projects involving Russians or Russian money. e New York Timesenumerates attempts by Trump or his adult children to establish branding deals in the country every year from 2005 to 2008. Donald Trump Jr. in particular developed a significant presence in Russia during that period, including visiting at least six times in 18 months, telling the audience of a 2008 conference called Real Estate in Russia that his family was pursuing properties in Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Sochi, and stating in an interview with a Russian newspaper that Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross  section of a lot of our assets. We see a lot of money pouring in from Russia. roughout the period, the Bayrock Group remained the Trump Organizations intermediary in the region and was also a partner in the development of Trump SoHo. e list goes on. In 2007, Trump introduced his (now defunct) brand of vodka to the Russian public at Moscows Millionaires Fair; in 2013, he brought the Miss https://12ft.io/proxy 3/6 2/23/25, 9:45 AM Trump&#x27;s Been Talking About His Business Interests in Russia for 30 Years   The Atlantic Universe Pageant to the city, funded in part by $20 million from a Russian billionaire, and tweeted wondering whether he would meet, and become best friends with, President Vladimir Putin. at same year, Trump went on e Late Show and explicitly told David Letterman, Ive done a lot of business with the Russians. So, supposedly, did Eric Trump: According to a report on the radio station WBUR, a golf writer asked in 2014 how the family had managed to finance a new golf course in Charlotte, North Carolina, in the middle of the Great Recession. Well, we dont rely on American banks, Eric allegedly responded. We have all the funding we need out of Russia. (Eric Trump denied that this happened.) Trumps track record in doing business in Russia doesnt definitively demonstrate that he currently has connections to the country, which, based on what Spicer said on the topic, is the specific allegation Trump has hired the law firm to deny. It also doesnt in any way mean that he colluded with Russia during the campaign, which is the reason for the FBIs investigation. But the problem underlying the inquiry into Trumps financial ties isnt simply whether he currently has projects there; its whether his dealings leave him indebted to the Russian government or the nations oligarchs, which could compromise his decision making. Of course, if Trump truly doesnt have any financial entanglements in Russia, theres an easy way for him to prove it: by releasing his tax returns. e administration has offered increasingly flimsy excuses for Trumps continual refusal to do so; the most recent came from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who effectively ruled out their release by insisting that Trumps mandatory Federal Election Commission disclosure forms include plenty of information about the presidents finances. But Americans could learn significantly more from Trumps tax returnsnot a few pages from 1995, as e New York Times published in October, or a single 1040 from 2005, as Rachel Maddow revealed in March, but the complete documents that presidents typically release. Full disclosure would include information about not only how much he made or lost from each of his companies and properties in a given year but also where that money came from or went. It would include information such as whether he has any bank accounts overseas and whether he pays taxes to any foreign https://12ft.io/proxy 4/6 2/23/25, 9:45 AM Trump&#x27;s Been Talking About His Business Interests in Russia for 30 Years   The Atlantic governments. ough its unlikely that any individual form would list, say, Loans from Vladimir, the information would in aggregate provide at least a partial paper trail by which outside observers might be able to suss out the details of what Trump owes, and to whom. On the other hand, if, as Trump has recently been claiming, he has no business ties in Russia, his tax returns could prove entirely exculpatory, affirming that neither he nor any of his companies are in debt to any Russian banks. Ironically, Trumps decision to lawyer up against the accusations that he has financial ties to Russia could be the reason his tax returns finally become public. If Trump does end up in court over the allegations, whether because of existing lawsuits regarding his conflicts of interest or if the notoriously litigious president sues one of his accusers for libel, the forms could come up as part of the trials discovery phase, during which litigants can request documents that might provide evidence relevant to the case. ats essentially what happened in 2007 when the president sued the journalist Timothy OBrien for allegedly underreporting Trumps net worth in the book Trump Nation: e Art of Being the Donald. e suit was ultimately dismissed, but not before OBrien requested, and received, Trumps tax returns; though the documents have since been sealed and OBrien is not allowed to publicly describe the specifics of what he learned, the forms have nevertheless prompted OBrien to argue that the document should be made public. Unless something like that happens again, theres no reason to believe that Trump will be releasing his tax returns anytime soon. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Jeremy Venook Jeremy Venook is a former editorial fellow at e Atlantic. More Stories e Astros Cheating Scandal Rewrites a Decade of Baseball History Two Superstars Gamble on Record Breaking Deals https://12ft.io/proxy 5/6 2/23/25, 9:45 AM https://12ft.io/proxy Trump&#x27;s Been Talking About His Business Interests in Russia for 30 Years   The Atlantic 6/6