2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post archive.today webpage capture Saved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration history prior next search 23 Feb 2020 14:33:55 UTC Redirected from https://t.co/Op3FTrLSMx?amp=1 no other snapshots from this url All snapshots from host t.co from host www.washingtonpost.com Webpage Screenshot share download .zip report bug or abuse  Sections  Sign In  Get 1 year for $40 Democracy Dies in Darkness National Security  Share  0 Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   Most Read World   1 Italy says number of coronavirus cases spiked from three to 132 in matter of days, making it the largest outbreak outside of Asia The Trump administration is moving toward returning two Russian compounds that were vacated and shut down in December 2016. (Elyse Samuels/The Washington Post) 2 Responding to news of Russian interference, Trump sends chilling message to U.S. intelligence community By Karen DeYoung and Adam Entous May 31, 2017 3 Bernie Sanders briefed by U.S. officials that Russia is trying to help his presidential campaign The Trump administration is moving toward handing back to Russia two diplomatic compounds, near New York City and on Marylands Eastern Shore, that its officials were 4 For Canada's Trudeau, the $15.5 billion Teck mine decision is a lose lose situation ejected from in late December as punishment for Moscows interference in the 2016 presidential election. President Barack Obama said Dec. 29 that the compounds 5 Confusion mounts over Chinas counting methods as coronavirus numbers swing wildly were being used by Russian personnel for intelligence  related purposes and gave Russia 24 hours to vacate them. Separately, Obama expelled from the United States what he said were 35 Russian intelligence operatives. https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  1/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post [The luxurious, 45 acre compound in Maryland being shut down for alleged Russian espionage] In early May, the Trump administration told the Russians Latest episode Shopping under the influence that it would consider turning the properties back over to  Listen 22:27 them if Moscow would lift its freeze, imposed in 2014 in retaliation for U.S. sanctions related to Ukraine, on construction of a new U.S. consulate on a certain parcel of Unparalleled reporting. Expert insight. Clear analysis. Everything youve come to expect from the newsroom of The Post    for your ears. land in St. Petersburg. Coverage you want, credibility you expect. For a limited time, get one year of unlimited access for $100 $40. Save 60% today Two days later, the U.S. position changed. Secretary of State Send me this offer Rex Tillerson told Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov Already a subscriber? Sign in and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak at a meeting in Washington that the United States had dropped any linkage between the compounds and the consulate, according to several people with knowledge of the exchanges. Today's WorldView newsletter Russian compounds in Maryland and New York shut down   Analysis on the most important global story of the day, top reads, interesting ideas and opinions to know, in your inbox weekdays. E mail address Add washingtonpost.com  1996 2020 The Washington Post  View Photos Help Policies and Standards Terms of Service Two luxury retreats, in Centreville, Md., and Oyster Bay, N.Y., Privacy Policy where Russian diplomats have gone for decades to play tennis, Print Products Terms of Sale sail and swim, were shut down by the Obama administration in Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy retaliation for Moscows alleged hacking in the presidential RSS Terms of Service election. Ad Choices Contact Us https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  2/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post [Inside the Oval Office with Trump and the Russians: Broad smiles and loose lips] In Moscow on Wednesday, Kremlin aide Yury Ushakov said Russia was taking into account the difficult internal political situation for the current administration but retained the option to reciprocate for what he called the expropriation of Russian property if these steps are not somehow adjusted by the U.S. side, the news outlet Sputnik reported. Senior Tillerson adviser R.C. Hammond said that the U.S. and Russia have reached no agreements. He said the next senior  level meeting between the two governments, below the secretary of state level, will be in June in St. Petersburg. Before making a final decision on allowing the Russians to reoccupy the compounds, the administration is examining possible restrictions on Russian activities there, including removing the diplomatic immunity the properties previously enjoyed. Without immunity, the facilities would be treated as any other buildings in the United States and would not be barred to entry by U.S. law enforcement, according to people who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive diplomatic matters. Any concessions to Moscow could prove controversial while administration and former Trump campaign officials are under congressional and special counsel investigation for alleged ties to Russia. [Comey may testify before Senate as early as next week on Trump interactions] Changes in the administrations official posture toward the compounds come as Russian media recently suggested that Kislyak, about to leave Washington after serving as https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  3/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post ambassador since 2008, may be proposed by the Kremlin to head a new position as U.N. undersecretary general for counterterrorism. Kislyak, who met and spoke during the campaign and transition with President Trumps former national security adviser, Michael Flynn; Trumps White House adviser and son in law, Jared Kushner; Attorney General Jeff Sessions; and others, is known to be interested in the post. His replacement as ambassador, Deputy Foreign Minister Anatoly Antonov, was confirmed last month by the Russian Duma, or parliament. Officials in Moscow said Russian President Vladi mir Putin will officially inform Trump of the new ambassador when the two meet in July, at the Group of 20 summit in Hamburg. It will be Trumps first meeting with Putin as president. The U.N. General Assembly must first approve establishment of the counterterrorism slot, part of a larger U.N. reorganization and the first new post at that level for decades. Russia will almost certainly claim the slot as the only member of the five permanent members of the Security Council without one of its nationals in a senior U.N. position. Jeffrey Feltman, a former senior U.S. diplomat, is undersecretary general for political affairs; comparable jobs for peacekeeping, humanitarian affairs and economic affairs are held, respectively, by nationals from France, Britain and China. Secretary General Antnio Guterres will decide who fills the new job, although both Russia and the United States are expected to make their views known. https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  4/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post Kislyak has repeatedly rejected descriptions of him in the U.S. media as a spy. Asked whether U.S. intelligence considered him to be one, James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, told CNN on Sunday that given the fact that he oversees a very aggressive intelligence operation in this country  the Russians have more intelligence operatives than any other nation that is represented in this country, still even after we got rid of 35 of them  and so to suggest that he is somehow separate or oblivious to that is a bit much. [Russian ambassador told Moscow that Kushner wanted secret communications channel with Kremlin] The Russian compounds  a 14 acre estate on Long Island and several buildings on secluded acreage along the Corsica River on Marylands Eastern Shore  have been in Russian possession since the days of the Soviet Union. According to a Maryland deed in 1995, the former USSR transferred ownership of the Maryland property to the Russian Federation in 1995 for a payment of one dollar. Russia said it used the facilities, both of which had diplomatic immunity, for rest and recreation for embassy and U.N. employees and to hold official events. But U.S. officials dating to the Reagan administration, based on aerial and other surveillance, had long believed they were also being used for intelligence purposes. https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  5/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post Last year, when Russian security services began harassing U.S. officials in Moscow  including slashed tires, home break ins, and, at one point, tackling and throwing to the ground a U.S. embassy official entering through the front of the embassy  the Obama administration threatened to close the compounds, former Obama officials said. In meetings to protest the treatment, the Obama administration said that it would do so unless the harassment stopped, and Moscow dropped its freeze on construction of a new consulate to replace the one in St. Petersburg, considered largely unusable because of Russian spying equipment installed there. Russia had earlier blocked U.S. use of a parcel of land and construction guarantees in the city when sanctions were imposed after its military intervention in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea. The threat of closing the compounds was not pursued. In late December, after U.S. intelligence said there had been election meddling, and in response to the ongoing harassment in Moscow, Obama ordered the compounds closed and diplomats expelled. We had no intention of ever giving them back, a former senior Obama official said of the compounds. Trump, then at his Mar a Lago estate in Florida, appeared to disparage the Obama administration sanctions, telling reporters, I think we ought to get on with our lives. Surprisingly, Russia did not respond. It later emerged that Flynn, in a phone conversation with Kislyak, had advised against retaliation and indicated that U.S. policy would change under the Trump administration. https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  6/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post [Putin says he wont deport U.S. diplomats] The Kremlin made clear that the compound issue was at the top of its bilateral agenda. Russia repeatedly denounced what it called the seizure of the properties as an illegal violation of diplomatic treaties. On May 8, the U.S. undersecretary of state for political affairs, Thomas Shannon, traveled to New York to meet with his Russian counterpart, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov on what the State Department described as a range of bilateral issues and what Russia called irritants and grievances. Ryabkov brought up the compounds, while Shannon raised St. Petersburg and harassment, suggesting that they deal with the operation of their diplomats and facilities in each others countries separate from policy issues such as Syria and proposing that they clear the decks with a compromise. Russia refused, saying that the compound issue was a hostile act that deserved no reciprocal action to resolve and had to be dealt with before other diplomatic problems could be addressed. In an interview with Tass, Ryabkov said Moscow was alarmed that Washington carries on working out certain issues in its traditional manner, particularly concerning Russias diplomatic property in the states of Maryland and New York. Two days later in Washington, Tillerson told Lavrov that the United States would no longer link the compounds to the issue of St. Petersburg. https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  7/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post Immediately after their May 10 meeting at the State Department, Tillerson escorted Lavrov and Kislyak to the Oval Office. There, they held a private meeting with Trump. The night before, the president had fired FBI Director James B. Comey, who was then heading an FBI investigation of the Russia ties. Comey, Trump told the Russians, was a real nut job, and his removal had taken off the Russia related pressure the president was under, the New York Times reported. Later in May, the Justice Department appointed former FBI director Robert S. Mueller III as special counsel to oversee the federal investigation. In a news conference at the Russian Embassy after his meetings with Tillerson and Trump, Lavrov said of the compound closures, Everyone, in particular the Trump administration, is aware that those actions were illegal. The dialogue between Russia and the U.S. is now free from the ideology that characterized it under the Barack Obama administration, he said. Julie Tate contributed to this report. Read more: On the Eastern Shore, a 45 acre Russian compound kept its secrets close Political chaos in Washington is a return on investment for Moscow White House offers shifting explanations of Trumps disclosures to Russians  0 Comments World news email alerts Important breaking news emails for major happenings around the world. https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  8/9 2/23/25, 1:52 PM Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York   The Washington Post E mail address Sign up By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Karen DeYoung Karen DeYoung is associate editor and senior national security correspondent for The Post. In more than three decades at the paper, she has served as bureau chief in Latin America and in London and as correspondent covering the White House, U.S. foreign policy and the intelligence community. Follow  Adam Entous Adam Entous wrote about national security, foreign policy and intelligence. He left The Washington Post in December 2017. He joined the newspaper in 2016 after more than 20 years with the Wall Street Journal and Reuters, where he covered the Pentagon, CIA, White House and Congress. Coverage you want, credibility you expect. For a limited time, get one year of unlimited access for $100 $40. Already a subscriber? Sign in Share news tips with us confidentially https://archive.ph/20200223143355/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/trump administration moves to return russian compounds in maryland  9/9