2/23/25, 2:46 PM Wealthy Russians are flocking to give birth at Trumps luxury US resorts so their kids can have dual citizenship Wealthy Russians are flocking to give birth at Trumps luxury US resorts so their kids can have dual citizenship The Trump International Beach Resort is one of the popular holiday destinations for Russian parents looking to give birth to dual citizens Shutterstock / Vladimir Korostys While President Trump cracks down on the children of undocumented migrants, wealthy Russians are using his properties to secure dual citizenship for their babies. The President's Florida properties are a Russian birth tourism hotspot, according to a Daily Beast investigation. Trump resorts are a popular choice for birth tourism companies, who offer luxury holidays to help expectant Russian parents secure dual Russian and American citizenship for their baby by giving birth in the US. Russian birth tourism companies are offering Trump apartments as part of packages costing 57,000 ($75,000) plus, as well as medical care, the Daily Beast found. Status Med, a Miami birth tourism company, offers a Trump Royale penthouse apartment for 5,300 ($7,000) a month alongside full access to the Sunny Medical Centre, which organises both beach yoga, get togethers and medical care for expectant mothers. read://https_www.standard.co.uk/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.standard.co.uk%2Flifestyle%2Flondon life%2Frussians flock to give birth at trump s properties in t 1/2 2/23/25, 2:46 PM Wealthy Russians are flocking to give birth at Trumps luxury US resorts so their kids can have dual citizenship On its website it describes itself as "a multidisciplinary medical center in the heart of Sunny Isles Beach, a fashionable Miami district with a large Russian community." Status Med owner Vera Muzyka said Trump properties are in high demand among her clients. And also, the name Melania has become very popular, she told the Daily Beast. Sunny Medical Center openly advertises citizenship as one of the primary benefits their clients receive. Muzyka told The Daily Beast that all the women using Sunny Medical Centers services openly tell U.S. officials that they are coming for birth tourism. Theres even a hashtag for Miami birth tourism: expectant Russian mothers posting glamorous pool  side scenes on Instagram tag their photos with births in Miami in Russian. Its not just new parents using the hashtag. Baby Boom USA, a birth tourism organisation offering support and assistance in obtaining documents, tags idyllic photographs of birthing experiences with births in Miami. The Trump Organisation does not directly profit from birth tourism subleases of privately owned apartments, but 75m ($98m) worth of Trump's property is now owned by Russian investors. Dual citizenship gives children born in the US to foreign parents easier access to education and jobs in the country, as well as the opportunity to apply for green cards for the rest of their family when they turn 21. In his presidential campaign, Trump argued that children born to undocumented parents, like those born through birth tourism, dont have a legal right to citizenship. I dont think they have American citizenship and if you speak to some very, very good lawyersand I know some will disagree, but many of them agree with meand youre going to find they do not have American citizenship, Trump told Bill OReilly on Fox News. We have to start a process where we take back our country. Our country is going to hell. The investigation comes as the Trump administration scraps the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Daca) programme, which guards 800,000 young people, mostly from Latin America, against deportation, proving work and study permits. read://https_www.standard.co.uk/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.standard.co.uk%2Flifestyle%2Flondon life%2Frussians flock to give birth at trump s properties in t 2/2